Thank you very much, everybody.  Thank you.   So we're just going to let the other folks come in, fill it up.  This is some crowd.  You have to see what's outside, you wouldn't even believe it.  Unbelievable.

So I'm thrilled to be here in Nashville, Tennessee, the home of country music, Southern hospitality, and the great President Andrew Jackson.    I just came from a tour of Andrew Jackson's home to mark the 250th anniversary of his birth.  Jackson's life was devoted to one very crucial principle — he understood that real leadership means putting America first.  

Before becoming President, Andrew Jackson served your state from the House of Representatives and in the United States Senate, and he also served as commander of the Tennessee militia.  Tough cookie.  Tough cookie.  

So let's begin tonight by thanking all of the incredible men and women of the United States military and all of our wonderful veterans.  The veterans.  

Amazing.  There's no place I'd rather be than with all of you here tonight, with the wonderful, hardworking citizens of our country. I would much rather spend time with you than any of the pundits, consultants, or special interests, certainly — or reporters from Washington, D.C.  

It's patriotic Americans like you who make this country run, and run well.  You pay your taxes, follow our laws, support your communities, raise your children, love your country, and send your bravest to fight in our wars.    All you want is a government that shows you the same loyalty in return.  It's time that Washington heard your voice — and believe me, on November 8th, they heard your voice.    The forgotten men and women of our country will never be forgotten again, believe me.  

I want to thank so many of your state leaders — State Party Chairman Scott Golden; Congressman Scott DesJarlais; Congresswoman Marsha Blackburn; Congresswoman Diane Black; Congressman Jimmy Duncan — right from the beginning.    Governor Bill Haslam.    A great friend of mine, Senator Bob Corker.    An incredible guy, respected by all — Senator Lamar Alexander.    And so many more.  Thank you all for being here.

We're going to be working closely together to deliver for you, the citizens of Tennessee, like you've never been delivered for before.  Thank you.  Thank you.    Thank you.  We're going to reduce your taxes — big league.  Big.    Big.  I want to start that process so quickly.  Got to get the healthcare done.  We got to start the tax reductions.  

We are going to enforce our trade rules and bring back our jobs, which are scattered all over the world.  They're coming back to our country.    We're going to support the amazing — absolutely amazing men and women of law enforcement.    Protect your freedoms, and defend the Second Amendment.    And we are going to restore respect for our country and for its great and very beautiful flag.  

It's been a little over 50 days since my inauguration, and we've been putting our America First agenda very much into action.  You see what's happening.  We're keeping our promises.  In fact, they have signs — “He's Kept His Promise.”  They're all over the place.  I have.    We have done far more — I think maybe more than anybody's done in this office in 50 days, that I could tell you.  

And we have just gotten started.  Wait until you see what's coming, folks.  We've appointed a Supreme Court justice to replace the late, great Antonin Scalia.  His name is Judge Neil Gorsuch.    He will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.  We are proposing a budget that will shrink the bloated federal bureaucracy — and I mean bloated — while protecting our national security.  You see what we're doing with our military — bigger, better, stronger than ever before.  You see what's happening.    And you're already seeing the results.  Our budget calls for one of the single largest increases in defense spending history in this country.  

We believe — especially the people in Tennessee, I know you people so well — (applause) — in peace through strength.  That's what we're going to have.  And we are taking steps to make sure that our allies pay their fair share.  They have to pay.    We've begun a dramatic effort to eliminate job-killing federal regulations like nobody has ever seen before — slash, slash.  We're going to protect the environment, we're going to protect people's safeties, but, let me tell you, the regulation business has become a terrible business, and we're going to bring it down to where it should be.  

Okay, let's go.  One person — and they'll be the story tomorrow — did you hear there was a protestor?  

We're going to put our miners back to work.  We're going to put our auto industry back to work.  Already because of this new business climate, we are creating jobs that are starting to pour back into our country like we haven't seen in many, many decades.  

In the first two job reports since I took the oath of office, we've already added nearly half a million new jobs, and believe me, it's just beginning.    I've already authorized the construction of the long-stalled and delayed Keystone and Dakota Access pipelines.    A lot of jobs.

I've also directed that new pipelines must be constructed with American steel.    They want to build them here, they use our steel.  We believe in two simple rules:  Buy American and Hire American.  

On trade, I've kept my promise to the American people, and withdrawn from the Trans-Pacific Partnership disaster.   Tennessee has lost one third of its manufacturing jobs since the institution of NAFTA, one of the worst trade deals ever in history.  Our nation has lost over 60,000 factories since China joined the World Trade Organization — 60,000.  Think of that.  More than that.

We're not going to let it happen anymore.  From now on, we are going to defend the American worker and our great American companies.    And if America does what it says, and if your President does what I've been telling you, there is nobody anywhere in the world that can even come close to us, folks.  Not even close.  

If a company wants to leave America, fire their workers, and then ship their new products back into our country, there will be consequences.    That's what we have borders for.  And by the way, aren't our borders getting extremely strong?    Very strong.

Don't even think about it.  We will build the wall.  Don't even think about it.    In fact, as you probably read, we went out to bid.  We had hundreds of bidders.  Everybody wants to build our wall.    Usually, that means we're going to get a good price.  We're going to get a good price, believe me.    We're going to build the wall.

Some of the fake news said, I don't think Donald Trump wants to build the wall.  Can you imagine if I said we're not going to build a wall?  Fake news.  Fake, fake news.  Fake news, folks.  A lot of fake.

No, the wall is way ahead of schedule in terms of where we are.  It's under design, and you're going to see some very good things happening.  But the border by itself right now is doing very well.  It's becoming very strong.  General Kelly has done a great job — General Kelly.

My administration is also following through on our promise to secure, protect, and defend that border within our United States.  Our southern border will be protected always.  It will have the wall.  Drugs will stop pouring in and poisoning our youth, and that will happen very, very soon.  You're already seeing what's going on.  The drugs are pouring into our country, folks.  They are poisoning our youth and plenty of others, and we're going to stop it.  We're not going to playing games.  Not going to be playing games.    Following my executive action — and don't forget, we've only been here for like — what? — 50 days — we've already experienced an unprecedented 40-percent reduction in illegal immigration on our Southern border; 61 percent since Inauguration Day — 61 percent.  Think about it.

And now people are saying, we're not going to go there anymore because we can't get in.  So it's going to get better and better.  We got to stop those drugs, though.  We got to stop those drugs.

During the campaign, as I traveled all across this country, I met with many American families whose loved ones were viciously and violently killed by illegal immigrants because our government refused to enforce our already existing laws.  These American victims were ignored by the media.  They were ignored by Washington.  But they were not ignored by me, and they're not ignored by you, and they never will be ignored certainly any longer.  Not going to happen.  

As we speak, we are finding the drug dealers, the robbers, thieves, gang members, killers and criminals preying on our citizens.  One by one — you're reading about it, right?  They're being thrown out of our country.  They're being thrown into prisons.  And we will not let them back in.  

We're also working, night and day, to keep our nation safe from terrorism.    We have seen the devastation from 9/11 to Boston to San Bernardino — hundreds upon hundreds of people from outside our country have been convicted of terrorism-related offenses in the United States courts.  Right now we have investigations going on all over — hundreds of refugees are under federal investigation for terrorism and related reasons.  We have entire regions of the world destabilized by terrorism and ISIS.  For this reason, I issued an executive order to temporarily suspend immigration from places where it cannot safely occur.  

But let me give you the bad news.  We don't like bad news, right?  I don't want to hear — and I'll turn it into good.  But let me give you the bad, the sad news.  Moments ago, I learned that a district judge in Hawaii — part of the much overturned 9th Circuit Court — and I have to be nice; otherwise I'll get criticized for speaking poorly about our courts.  I'll be criticized by these people, among the most dishonest people in the world — I will be criticized — I'll be criticized by them for speaking harshly about our courts.  I would never want to do that.  A judge has just blocked our executive order on travel and refugees coming into our country from certain countries.

The order he blocked was a watered-version of the first order that was also blocked by another judge and should have never been blocked to start with.  This new order was tailored to the dictates of the 9th Circuit's — in my opinion — flawed ruling.  This is, the opinion of many, an unprecedented judicial overreach.  The law and the Constitution give the President the power to suspend immigration when he deems — or she — or she.  Fortunately, it will not be Hillary she.    When he or she deems it to be in the national interest of our country.

So we have a lot of lawyers here.  We also have a lot of smart people here.  Let me read to you directly from the federal statute, 212F, of the immigration — and you know what I'm talking about, right?  Can I read this to you?  Listen to this.  Now, we're all smart people.  We're all good students — some are bad students, but even if you're a bad student this is a real easy one, let me tell you.  Ready?

So here's the statute — which they don't even want to quote when they overrule it.  And it was put here for the security of our country.  And this goes beyond me, because there will be other Presidents, and we need this.  And sometimes we need it very badly for security — security of our country.

It says — now, listen how easy this is.  “Whenever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or any class of aliens would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, he may, by proclamation, and for such period as he — see, it wasn't politically correct, because it should say he or she.  You know, today they'd say that.  Actually, that's the only mistake they made.  “as he shall deem necessary, suspending entry of all aliens, or any class of aliens, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or pose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deems to be appropriate.”  In other words, if he thinks there's danger out there, he or she — whoever is President — can say, I'm sorry, folks, not now, please.  We've got enough problems.  

We're talking about the safety of our nation, the safety and security of our people.    Now, I know you people aren't skeptical people because nobody would be that way in Tennessee.  Right?  Nobody — not Tennessee.  You don't think this was done by a judge for political reasons, do you?  No.

This ruling makes us look weak — which, by the way, we no longer are, believe me.    Just look at our borders.  We're going to fight this terrible ruling.  We're going to take our case as far as it needs to go, including all the way up to the Supreme Court.    We're going to win.  We're going to keep our citizens safe.  And regardless, we're going to keep our citizens safe, believe me.    Even liberal Democratic lawyer, Alan Dershowitz —- good lawyer — just said that we would win this case before the Supreme Court of the United States.  

Remember this, I wasn't thrilled, but the lawyers all said, let's tailor it.  This is a watered–down version of the first one.  This is a watered–down version.  And let me tell you something, I think we ought to go back to the first one and go all the way, which is what I wanted to do in the first one.  

The danger is clear, the law is clear, the need for my executive order is clear.  I was elected to change our broken and dangerous system and thinking in government that has weakened and endangered our country and left our people defenseless.    And I will not stop fighting for the safety of you and your families, believe me.  Not today, not ever.  We're going to win it.  We're going to win it.  

We're going to apply common sense.  We're going to apply intelligence.  And we're never quitting, and we're never going away, and we're never, ever giving up.  The best way to keep foreign terrorists — or, as some people would say in certain instances, radical Islamic terrorists — from attacking our country is to stop them from entering our country in the first place.  

We'll take it, but these are the problems we have.  People are screaming, break up the 9th Circuit.  And I'll tell you what, that 9th Circuit — you have to see.  Take a look at how many times they have been overturned with their terrible decisions.  Take a look.  And this is what we have to live with.

Finally, I want to get to taxes.  I want to cut the hell out of taxes, but — (applause) — but before I can do that — I would have loved to have put it first, I'll be honest — there is one more very important thing that we have to do, and we are going to repeal and replace horrible, disastrous Obamacare.  

If we leave Obamacare in place, millions and millions of people will be forced off their plans, and your senators just told me that in your state you're down to practically no insurers.  You're going to have nobody.  You're going to have nobody.  And this is true all over.  The insurers are fleeing.  The insurers are fleeing.  It's a catastrophic situation, and there's nothing to compare anything to because Obamacare won't be around for a year or two.  It's gone.  So it's not like, oh, gee, they have this.  Obamacare is gone.

Premiums will continue to soar double digits and even triple digits in many cases.  It will drain our budget and destroy our jobs.  Remember all of the broken promises?  You can keep your doctor, you can keep your plan.  Remember the wise guy — remember the wise guy that essentially said the American people — the so–called architect — the American people are stupid because they approved it?  We're going to show them.

Those in Congress who made these promises have no credibility whatsoever on healthcare.     And remember this — remember this:  If we took, because there's such divisiveness — and I'm not just talking now, with me.  There was with Obama.  There was with Bush.  The level of hatred and divisiveness with the politicians.  I remember years ago, I'd go to Washington — I was always very politically active — and Republicans and Democrats, they'd fight during the day and they go to dinner at night.  Today, there's a level that nobody has seen before.

Just remember this:  If we submitted the Democrats' plan, drawn everything perfect for the Democrats, we wouldn't get one vote from the Democrats.  That's the way it is.  That's how much divisiveness and other things there are.  So it's a problem.  But we're going to get it by.

So, I've met with so many victims of Obamacare —- the people who have been so horribly hurt by this horrible legislation.  At the very core of Obamacare was a fatal flaw — the government forcing people to buy a government–approved product.  There are very few people — very few people.

By the way — watch what happens.  Now you just booed Obamacare.  They will say, Trump got booed when he mentioned — they're bad people, folks.  They're bad people.

Tonight, I'll go home, I'll turn on, I'll say — listen, I'll turn on that television.  My wife will say, darling, it's too bad you got booed.  I said, I didn't get booed.  This was a — I said, no, no, they were booing Obamacare.  Watch, a couple of them will actually do it, almost guaranteed.  But when we call them out, it makes it harder for them to do it.  So we'll see.  It's the fake, fake media.  We want Americans to be able to purchase the health insurance plans they want, not the plans forced on them by our government.  

The House has put forward a plan to repeal and replace Obamacare based on the principles I outlined in my joint address, but let me tell you, we're going to arbitrate, we're going to all get together and we're going to get something done.  Remember this — if we didn't do it the way we're doing it, we need 60 votes so we have to get the Democrats involved.  They won't vote, no matter what we do, they're not going to vote.  So we're doing it a different way, a complex way.  It's fine.  The end result is when you have phase one, phase two, phase three — it's going to be great.  It's going to be great.

And then, we get on to tax reductions, which I like.    The House legislation does so much for you.  It gives the states Medicaid flexibility.  And some of the states will take over their healthcare.  Governor Rick Scott in Florida said, just send me the money — they run a great plan.  We have states that are doing great.  It gives great flexibility.

Thank you, folks.  Thank you.    It repeals hundreds of billions of dollars in Obamacare taxes.  It provides tax credits to purchase the care that is rightfully theirs.  The bill that I will ultimately sign — and that will be a bill where everybody is going to get into the room and we're going to get it done — we'll get rid of Obamacare and make healthcare better for you and for your family.  

And once this is done, and a step further, we are going to try and put it in phase three — I'm going to work on bringing down the cost of medicine by having a fair and competitive bidding process.  

We welcome this healthcare debate and its negotiation, and we're going to carry it out, and have been carrying it out, in the full light of day — unlike the way Obamacare was passed.  Remember, folks, if we don't do anything, Obamacare is gone.  It's not like, oh, gee, it's going to be wonderful in three years.  It's gone.  It's gone.  It's gone.  Not working.  It's gone.  What we cannot do is to be intimidated by the dishonest attacks from Democratic leaders in Congress who broke the system in the first place and who don't believe you should be able to make your own healthcare decisions.  

I am very confident that if we empower the American people we will accomplish incredible things for our country — not just on healthcare, but all across our government.  We will unlock new frontiers in science and in medicine.  We will give our children the right to attend the school of their choice, one where they will be taught to love this country and its values.    We will create millions and millions of new jobs by lowering taxes on our businesses, and very importantly for our workers, we're going to lower taxes.  

And we will fight for the right of every American child to grow up in a safe neighborhood, attend a great school, and to graduate with access to a high-paying job that they love doing.  

No matter our background, no matter our income, no matter our geography, we all share the same home.  We all salute the same flag.  And we all are made by the same God.  

It's time to embrace our glorious American destiny.  Anything we can dream for our country we can achieve for our country.  All we have to do is tap into that American pride that is swelling our hearts and stirring our souls.  And we found that out very recently in our last election — a lot of pride.    We are all Americans, and the future truly belongs to us.  The future belongs to all of you.  This is your moment.  This is your time.  This is the hour when history is made.  All we have to do is put our own citizens first, and together we will make America strong again.    We will make America wealthy again.  We will make America proud again.  We will make America safe again.  And we will make America great again.  

Thank you.  God bless you.  Thank you.    God bless you, everybody.  

Welcome to all of you deplorables. Thank you, ma'am. Boy, oh boy. We're going to have a good time tonight. We're going to have a good time.

Wow. I love that. I love that. Look at this. Look what that says. Hold up that sign for the cameras. Wow. That's so beautiful. Thank you. Great. Thank you. That is so nice. And we are doing well in every way. The polls have been incredible. But we're doing great.

It's great to be in my second home — Florida. And in the city of Miami, where I have so many wonderful friends and projects and employees. We have an amazing group. And all of you know Trump National Doral and we'll go there. Let's go and have some fun.

We have tremendous developments in Miami on the water and Doral in particular has been a tremendous, tremendous thing. So I really appreciate it. I love this city. I love the whole state. So, and I have a lot of employees. And I'm paying them a lot of money. And, by the way, a lot of African-American employees, a lot of Hispanic employees. A lot. And they're very happy. They like Donald Trump.

So new polls have just come in. And we're leading in many of the battleground states all over the country. Including being 4 points up in a certain state known as Florida. And the Los Angeles Times has us 6 points up nationwide. Good poll. If it weren't, I wouldn't be telling you about it, I promise.

But come Nov. 8, we're going to win Florida, and we're going to win the White House, and we're going to make America great again. It's going to be a victory for the people. It's going to be a victory for the workers, the families, the veterans. The veterans — we love our veterans. And every citizen of this country. It's going to be a victory for those who haven't had reason to hope for a very long time. I'm campaigning in every community, every part of this country for every last vote.

I'm running to be a president for all Americans. I just had the most amazing afternoon in Little Haiti. Good place. Unbelievable people. And I'm going to be campaigning hard for their votes. And they are incredible people. Our support comes from all regions, all backgrounds and all walks of life — all. All of them. And, by the way, at Little Haiti they presented me with something that I figured I'd put on. Is that OK to put it on? They gave me that and I love it. I think it's great.

Your cops and soldiers — thank you. I love you too. Carpenters and welders, accountants and lawyers, young and old, rich and poor, Black, white and Hispanic. But above all, we are together and we are Americans. We got to pull our country together.

Just today I was honored to get the endorsement of recipients of the Medal of Honor, brave people. And many, many of our most amazing military leaders, generals, admirals, amazing people, real fighters. They really know what they're doing. We now have the endorsements of more than 160 top generals and admirals. I didn't know we had that many. Well, we love them.

We also have the support of 16,500 border patrol officers. The first time in the history of the border patrol that they've endorsed any presidential candidate. As well as law enforcement officers, police, all across the country.

In fact, I'm very excited to announce tonight that we just received a few minutes ago the endorsement of the largest police union in the country, the Fraternal Order of Police. Number one by far. Pretty good. Pretty good.

And we have the support of millions of patriotic moms and dads who go to work every day and make our country run.

While my opponent slanders you as deplorable — and irredeemable! Boy that second word is tough. You don't hear that as much. But that means you're never going to come back, folks. And I know you're going to come back. We're going to come back so strong. We're going to be so strong. Stronger than ever before. Irredeemable. They don't talk about that one, but that was, to me, pretty bad. I call you hardworking American patriots who love your family and really, really, really love your country. Love your country.

Clinton's entire campaign rests on using a single tactic, and it's not working very well. She spent hundreds of millions of dollars on phony campaign ads. And we're actually I think probably leading — based on everything we're seeing — and we've spent practically nothing. I'm proud of that. And you know what? We're doing very well. You know in the old days if you spent less and you had far fewer people and you were leading you got credit. Today they say well, she's spending much more money. Yes, but she's doing poorly, very poorly. But what they do is they smear opponents — and you look at her history — and they question policies. And they talk all the time about racist, racist. It's the only word they know. They used it on Romney. They used it on everybody. They use it. When they're in trouble, they always pull out the racist word. And they are in very big trouble, I have to tell you.

And for the most part we haven't even started spending our money yet. And we have raised a lot of money. And I'm putting in my money. And I put in a hell of a lot of money. In fact, if things don't work out, even though a lot of people are saying this was one of the great political phenomenas they've ever seen. They've never seen — they call it a phenomena. I will tell you. If it doesn't work out, it will be a tremendous waste of time, energy and money. And she's angry for even suggesting it. But we're going to — hey look, Nov. 8 you go and vote. We're winning. I'll tell you what. If you vote, we're winning. There's no way they can beat us. There's no way she can beat us because her people have no enthusiasm, whatsoever. They're not going to turn out. They don't have the enthusiasm. Who could possibly have enthusiasm? What are you getting?

You turn out, we're winning big league. And I think — and they're all saying the Trump people are going to turn out. We have a movement like they have never, ever seen in this country. And they say in terms of enthusiasm they have never had polling higher. So I think, I have very little doubt, turnout we're going to have a tremendous Nov. 8. Probably we'll say Nov. 8 plus the next four years and then four years after that, OK?

But the racist word, it's the oldest play in the Democratic playbook, and Americans have had enough of it, OK. We get it. We get it.

I'll tell you what, I just — I told you I just left Little Haiti. The love is unbelievable. It's unbelievable. There's no racist. There's no nothing. It's love. They want solutions. They want better lives, not more petty attacks from failed and totally discredited politicians like crooked Hillary Clinton. They want their immigration laws enforced and their border secured.

[U.S.A. chant]

Let's win on Nov. 8, OK? That'll be —

They're patriotic Americans of all backgrounds who want their jobs and their families protected. They want protection. People who warn about radical Islamic terrorism are not Islamophobes. Everyone's an Islamophobe. You mention something you're an Islamophobe. You know they come up with words. Hey, I went to Ivy League school. I did very well — great. They have so many new words. Islamophobe.

We have a president — and frankly Hillary — who don't use the words radical Islamic terrorism. And if you don't know what you're fighting, you're not going to fight it very well. And we've proven that. We have decent American citizens who want to uphold our tolerant values and keep our country safe. We want to keep our country safe. People who support the police, who want crime reduced and ended, and who are not prejudiced. They're concerned and loving citizens whose hearts break every time an innocent child is killed, violently, on the streets, which is happening all over our country.

Yet while Hillary Clinton lives behind gates and walls and guards, and raises millions from hedge funds — you know look what she's doing with these hedge funds, raising millions and millions. I know so many of these people. Give me a break. The hedge fund and the Wall Street donors she slanders and smears with her statements last week. Working people who just want a fraction of the security enjoyed by our politicians and certainly enjoyed by her.

Now you know she's very much against the Second Amendment. She wants to destroy your Second Amendment. Guns, guns, guns, right. I think what we should do is she goes around with armed bodyguards like you have never seen before. I think that her bodyguards should drop all weapons. They should disarm, right? Right? I think they should disarm immediately. What do you think? Yes? Yeah.

Take their guns away. She doesn't want guns. Take their — let's see what happens to her. Take their guns away. OK? It'd be very dangerous. Her comments displayed the same sense of arrogance and entitlement that led her to violate federal law as secretary of State, hide and delete her e-mails, destroy her iPhones — with a hammer! With a hammer! Thirteen of them. Put classified information in the reach of our enemies, lie to Congress, and sell government favors and access through her foundation. It's the same attitude of arrogance and entitlement that explains why she has never taken accountability for the disaster she created in Libya, Syria, Iraq, Iran and all over the world. Everything she touched, it just didn't work out. Certainly it didn't work out for our country.

It's the same reason why she won't take responsibility for her central role in unleashing ISIS all over the world. Her policies have created disaster overseas and poverty at home. We see it. Look, we see it. I drove here. We see it. We see it. I'm running to reverse these failures. And they are incredible failures. And create a new American future. And that future begins with prosperity at home. My economic agenda can be summed up in three words. And you're going to like these three words. Jobs, jobs, jobs.

One of my highest priorities is to bring jobs into our inner cities. African-American communities have suffered horribly as a result of failed Democratic leadership. Democrats have run these inner cities for a half a century, for 60 years, 75 years, even in some cases 100 years straight. Unabated. Unbroken. Over 100 years. They control the mayor's offices, the school boards, the city councils and the seats in Congress. And all they have delivered is more poverty, more crime and more failing schools.

Sixty-five percent of African-American children under the age of six now live in poverty. More than 3,000 people have been shot in the city of Chicago this year. This year. Think of it, since Jan. 1. Fifty-eight percent of African-American youth are not working. Can't get a job. These are the results of the policies embraced by Hillary Clinton. And everyone knows that if she's elected the inner cities will get nothing but more pain and suffering and crime and heartache.

[U.S.A. chant]

Amazing people. Amazing country. We have an amazing country. And honestly you see the crime statistics. You're African-American. You have the inner city problems that have been going on for ever. Forever. You have problems like nobody has. And you look at crime. You look at schools. You look at no jobs. Look at the worst education. Look how dangerous. You can't walk down the street. You get shot or your child gets shot. And I've been saying it, and I'll say it openly — and some people like it and some people don't like it, and I don't really care. What do you have to lose? I will fix it. I'm going to fix it. We're going to fix our inner cities. We're going to make them safe. We're going to bring jobs back. So to the African-American people within the community, what do you have to lose? It can't get — honestly, it can't get — that's so nice, thank you. It can't get any worse. It can't get any worse. It can't get any worse. Thank you. So nice. Thank you. Thank you very much. It can't get any worse, the crime, the jobs. No jobs. No education. Worst education. More unsafe — you go to Afghanistan, right. We hear Afghanistan. I mean we have cities that are far more dangerous than Afghanistan. Inner cities. African-American people within that community and outside of that community are going to be voting for Donald Trump in record numbers. You watch. We're going to fix it.

Hillary Clinton has been in Washington for 30 years. Her disastrous record speaks for itself. And I have to tell you. When she ran for the United States Senate in New York, we have upstate New York which is a total disaster, economic disaster. She said she's going to bring back jobs, jobs, jobs. She — anyway, she gets elected. We lost our jobs. It got worse. She didn't do anything. She didn't do anything. She went home. She went to sleep, OK. She didn't do anything. She didn't do anything. It got worse. Far worse now, it's a total catastrophe. Just remember that.

When she tells you about jobs, when she tells you she's going to fix trade deals, she wouldn't know where to begin. She wouldn't know where to begin. And besides that, to do that kind of thing, to negotiate great trade deals, to re-enhance our — I mean look. Our military is so depleted. We have the greatest people on earth. They're using equipment that's old. They're flying planes that are old. You see what's happening. It's a depleted military. We have to have a strong military. We have to take care of our vets. We have to take care of our vets.

But to do these things you need a lot of energy. And she does not have the energy. And in my opinion she is totally unfit to be the president of the United States. The only people that she will deliver for, frankly, are her donors and her special interests. I'm going to deliver for you, believe me. The American people. We're going to deliver. You're gonna be happy. And those inner cities are going to see progress like they have probably, not probably. Like they have never seen. You watch. Like they have never seen. Thank you.

If we lower our taxes and we're getting a massive tax reduction — and by the way, Hillary Clinton is raising your taxes substantially.

If we remove destructive regulations, unleash the vast treasure of American energy. We have so much energy. It's being destroyed, our economic worth. And negotiate trade deals that put America first. Then there is no limit to the number of jobs we can create and the amount of prosperity we can unleash. There is no limit. Pay off our debt. Pay down our debt. Reduce taxes. Get rid of regulations. My first day in office I'm going to order a review of every single regulation issued over the last 10 years.

All needless, job-killing regulations will be immediately canceled. Millions of new jobs will come pouring in. And we're going to lift the restrictions on American energy — which means at least another half a million jobs each year. They are being destroyed. And we're unable to compete with other nations. Very simple. And that's just the beginning. Also on my first day I'm going to ask Congress to send me a bill to immediately repeal and replace disastrous Obamacare. It has turned out to be a disaster.

This alone will instantly save another two million jobs. And if you look at your premiums, it's through the roof. And by the way, on Nov. 1, just before the election on Nov. 8, new numbers are coming out which will show 40, 50, 60 percent increases. They want to delay it until after the election because it's election — it's a disaster. It's a disaster. And your deductibles are so high that unless you lead a really long, slow, vicious death, you're never going to be able to use it, OK. Do you see the deductibles? You're never going to be able to use it.

I'm also going to completely reform our trade deals. We're going to renegotiate NAFTA. Probably the worst trade deal ever agreed to, signed in the history of the world, not in the United States. It's destroyed our manufacturing in our country. It's destroyed. And by the way, guess who signed it? Bill Clinton. You look at all of the places, Florida included. But you look at upstate New York, you look at Ohio, you look at Pennsylvania. You look at all of these different places have been destroyed. Absolutely destroyed.

You look at New England. Look what happened to New England. They've been destroyed by companies moving out, going into Mexico, firing everybody. Unemployment through the roof. We're going to stand up to China, and keep America out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership — another catastrophe. TPP will be almost as bad as NAFTA. Nothing can be as bad as NAFTA. Trans-Pacific Partnership will be almost as bad as NAFTA. It'll take your jobs, Ohio. Remember, it's going to take your jobs, Ohio. I tell you that. Michigan. So many places.

TPP is a disaster. We don't need another massive multinational deal, by the way, that nobody on our side even reads, that ties us up and binds us down and doesn't even discuss monetary manipulation and devaluation, which is how China and all these countries are beating us so badly. Not even discussed. And they had provisions in the agreement, and they would take it out because certain politicians didn't want to have them in there. I wonder why.

Another major reform is going to be school choice. And we're going to terminate Common Core. And we're bringing our education local. I've outlined a plan to provide every disadvantaged child in America the freedom to choose the private, public, magnet or religious school of his or her choice. This will help lift millions of poor African-American and Hispanic children out of poverty, something we are going to do. Since President Obama came into office another two million Hispanic Americans have fallen into poverty. It's catastrophic. And it's totally unacceptable. To the Hispanic community I say we are going to protect your jobs. We're going to build up your schools. And we're going to deliver safety and opportunity for your children. You have no safety. You have little opportunity.

This week I also rolled out a plan to help our mothers and our families get affordable quality child care for their children. Child care. Ivanka Trump, very much for child care. She's been talking about that to me for two years, long before I even decided to go through this journey. And it's not easy, I want to tell you. We speak in rooms like this. This is about 100 degrees right now. That's considered a cool auditorium. And the reason is we have such big crowds like this one. Look at that. Every single corner. Unbelievable. These rooms weren't designed for this many people. And it is hot in these rooms. And we stand up here and we talk. And we do two or three and sometimes we'll be hitting four a day.

Do you think Hillary Clinton can get through one? You ever see her 18-minute speech? Bomb. Bomb. Bomb. See ya. See ya, I'm going home.

No. We're doing it the right way. And frankly, when they spend hundreds of millions of dollars on advertising I don't have to because I do it the old fashioned way. I come into your neighborhood, right. It's a lot cheaper. It's a lot harder work, but it's a lot cheaper. Very true. Very, very true. On policy after policy we're going to provide opportunity, prosperity and security for all Americans. We're also going to stand with the Cuban people in their fight against Communist oppression.

No, we're on the right side. Great people. They're great people. The president's one-sided deal for Cuba and with Cuba benefits only the Castro regime. People are very unhappy about it.

You know what's interesting? When he landed the plane recently in China, right, they refused to give him a stairway out of Air Force One. Now that is a first in the history of Air Force One. So he used basically the mechanics' stairs. That's the stairs they drop down to get the mechanics up to fix the light bulb, right. When he landed the plane in Saudi Arabia, which we protect. Without us they wouldn't be there for two months. He landed in Saudi Arabia. He wasn't greeted by the top officials. Now what would I have done in those two cases? Bomb. Take me back to Washington, Jim. Let's go. Right. Let's go. Let's go, Jim. Get going. Close those doors. We're going home.

Now with Cuba, with Cuba we land in Cuba and there's no Castro to greet him. The big leaders weren't there to greet him. And I have a lot of Cuban friends. But you would have all done the same thing again. Jim, let's close those doors. We're going home. Right? Right? Let's go, captain. We're going home. We're going into Washington. Maybe we'll head into Miami actually. That's not a bad idea. Terrible. That's three. Three. Saudi Arabia, Cuba, China. Air Force One has never been treated so badly in its long and incredible history.

Air Force One used to land and people would respect the people inside. And they'd come out and there'd be all sorts of hoopla. Not anymore. It's unbelievable. And these are countries that have benefited by us greatly. So we have to make great deals before we do anything with Cuba or anybody else, right. We're going to make great deals. You'll be happy. You're going to be happy, I tell you.

How many people are from Cuba here? Come here. Tell me. Cuban. Cuban. Good. Do you agree with me? Do you agree? We'll do it. But we'll do it with great deals. And we'll do it with democracy. And we'll do it the way we have to do it. OK? We'll do it the right way.

Where is Ms. Delgado? Does everybody know? What a great — where is she? She is so amazing. A.J. Where is A.J. Wow, she's so — she's become a tremendous star. Tell you one thing, when she's representing me I wouldn't do it anyway, but I can. Turn off the television. I'm well protected. Thank you. Great job. Thank you very much. Thank you, A.J.

But all of the concessions that Barack Obama has granted the Castro regime were done through executive order, which means the next president can reverse them. And that I will do unless the Castro regime meets our demands. Not my demands, our demands. You know what the demands are.

Those demands will include religious and political freedom for the Cuban people. And the freeing of political prisoners. The freeing of political prisoners. Right? Am I — is that right? Oh boy. Oh boy. What energy in this room. What energy. A lot of energy.

You'll be very happy, my Cuban friends. I have so many friends from Cuba. Incredible people. So let's also talk about a place called Venezuela. They — now who's here from Venezuela? Or related in some — not too many. Whoa. Whoa. What's going on? Not too many? Friend or foe? I think he's friend. I think he's friend. No, he's OK. He's OK.

By the way, is there any place more fun to be than a Trump rally? You tell me. Right?

Tell you. We have a lot of Venezuelans around Doral, the Doral section, right. And it's a beautiful, vibrant — this is an amazing place. But they are really having trouble over in Venezuela. But Miami is filled with hardworking, incredible Venezuelan people. But it's been hurt very badly by Socialist Venezuela. And the next president of the United States must stand in solidarity with all people oppressed in our atmosphere. And we will stand with oppressed people. And there are many.

The oppressed people of Venezuela, they are yearning to be free. They are yearning for help. The system is bad. But the people are great. Great. They are great people. Here in America I'll push to expand freedom for all of our citizens. I'm going to lower your taxes so substantially. We're getting rid of all of those regulations on business. So many small business owners here, I know five of them. One of them was small business now he's big business. I'm proud of him. He's right here. But we're going to get rid of those terrible, terrible regulations.

He just said to me, and the thing that surprised me most, we're bringing business tax rates down from 35 percent to 15 percent. And yet — it'll be the greatest cut, I believe, in the history of our country. But I will tell you what surprises me tremendously is that the people that have these cuts, they're more concerned with regulation than even a big tax decrease because regulations are choking and killing our businesses and stopping our businesses from hiring people, jobs. So I'm going to appoint justices of the Supreme Court who will follow the Constitution.

I'm going to rebuild our depleted — we're going to take care of our, the vets. Who's a vet? Who's a vet? Where are my vets? Where are they? There they — OK. Now they're standing up. Now they — I know we had a lot of vets here. Thank you, fellas. Thank you very much. We're going to take care of our vets. We're going to save your Second Amendment. Do you know if you look at some of the things, the catastrophes — you look at Orlando. You look at San Bernardino. You look at so many different — you look at Paris. The toughest gun laws in the world, they have it in Paris.

These thugs, these animals walked in and they just go bomb, bomb, bomb. Nobody had guns on the other side. If there were guns on the other side, just a few of them, number one, probably if they knew, they wouldn't have attacked.

And number two, even if they did attack, it would've been a whole different story. One hundred thirty people killed. People massively injured, still in the hospital. Their lives are just destroyed. And if they had protection, if they had guns on the other side, with the bullets flying the other direction, it would've been a whole different story. So we're going to protect your Second Amendment. And I'm going to stop illegal immigration and drugs from coming into our country. And yes, we will build a wall. We'll build a wall. We will build a wall.

[Build that wall chant]

Who's going to pay for the wall? One hundred percent. One hundred percent. And we're going to be renegotiating NAFTA and our terrible trade deals. We're going to make great deals out of horrible deals. And if we can't renegotiate the deal because the other side is so, so happy with it, we're going to terminate the deal and we'll start all over again, folks.

We'll have new deals. And they'll be much better deals. And they'll be two-way streets. The traffic, it'll be coming our way. It's a one-way street out of the United States for our jobs and our money. You know I always say we get the drugs, they get the cash. That's the deal, folks. No good. They're building in Mexico right now, and Mexico's just one example, some of the greatest plants. A friend of mine builds plants. And he tells me all the time — I called him up the other day. I called him up six months ago, told me the same thing. Nothing changes. Ford. They just announced yesterday they're moving their small car division, the whole thing, into Mexico. That's on top of spending billions and billions of dollars. And then you wonder why I'm winning in Michigan. Because I've been telling the people in Michigan. I've been telling the people in Ohio for five years that this is happening. And our politicians don't do anything about it. And Hillary Clinton will never do anything about it. She doesn't have the capability to do it.

We will rebuild our roads and bridges, tunnels, highways, airports, schools and hospitals. American cars will travel the roads. American planes will soar in the sky. They'll soar. And American ships will patrol the seas. American steel will send new skyscrapers right here in Miami into the clouds. But it'll be American steel. American hands will rebuild this nation. And American energy mined from American sources will power our energy. And we'll take care of our steel workers. And we'll take care of our miners who have been destroyed by this administration, destroyed.

And Hillary Clinton has already said she's going to put the miners out of business. We're going to take care of our miners. They're amazing people. American workers will be hired to do the job. We will put new American steel into the spine of our country. I will fight for every neglected part of this nation. And I will fight to bring us all together as one people. Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God, saluting one flag.

[U.S.A. chant]

It's time to break with the bitter failures of the past and to embrace a new, inclusive and prosperous American future. We're not prosperous anymore. We owe $20 trillion. We have a president who in seven-and-a-half years has doubled the debt. Our country's in trouble. A lot of people don't know it, but our country's in trouble. And we're going to make sure that trouble never comes. Let me tell you. Jobs will return. Incomes will rise. And new factories will come rushing back to our shores. Once more we will have a government of, by and for the people.

We will make America wealthy again. We will make America safe again. We will make America strong again. And we will make America great again.

Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you, Miami.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, everybody.  Before we begin, I'd like to just say that we have a large team of very talented people in China.  We've had a negotiation going on for about two days.  It's going extremely well.  Who knows what that means, because it only matters if we get it done.  But we're very much working very closely with China and President Xi, who I respect a lot.  Very good relationship that we have.  And we're a lot closer than we ever were in this country with having a real trade deal.

We're covering everything — all of the points that people have been talking about for years that said couldn't be done, whether it was theft or anything.  Anything.  The unfairness.  We've been losing, on average, $375 billion a year with China.  A lot of people think it's $506 billion.  Some people think it's much more than that.  We're going to be leveling the playing field.

The tariffs are hurting China very badly.  They don't want them.  And frankly, if we can make the deal, it'd be my honor to remove them.  But otherwise, we're having many billions of dollars pouring into our Treasury.  We've never had that before with China.  It's been very much of a one-way street.

So, that's happening.  And the relationship with China is very good, but I think they finally respect our country.  They haven't respected us for a long time.  Not for a long time.

The UK and the U.S., as you probably have been seeing and hearing, we're agreeing to go forward and preserve our trade agreement.  You know all of the situation with respect to Brexit, and the complexity and the problems.  But we have a very good trading relationship with the UK, and that's just been strengthened further.

So with the UK, we're continuing our trade, and we are going to actually be increasing it very substantially as time goes by.  We expect that the UK will be very, very substantially increased as it relates to trade with the United States.  The relationship there, also, is very good.

We have a lot of great announcements having to do with Syria and our success with the eradication of the caliphate.  And that will be announced over the next 24 hours.  And many other things.  A lot of positive things are going on.

We're working on a summit.  And you know all about the summit.  It will be in Vietnam — Hanoi.  And we will — we'll be meeting in Hanoi.  We'll be meeting in Hanoi.  I think a lot of you will be going, I suspect.  And I hope we have the same good luck as we had in the first summit.  A lot was done in the first summit.  No more rockets going up.  No more missiles going up.  No more testing of nuclear.  Get back our remains, the remains of our great heroes from the Korean War.  And we got back our hostages.

But we hope we're going to be very much equally as successful.  I'm in no rush for speed.  We just don't want testing.  The sanctions, as you know, remain.  Everything is remaining.  China has been helping us, and Russia has been helping us.  And South Korea, I think you can say, has been — we've been working very closely with South Korea, with Japan.

But China, Russia, on the border, have really been at least partially living up to what they're supposed to be doing.  And that's okay — as per the United Nations.

So we will have a meeting on the 27th and 28th of February, and I think that will be a very successful one.  I look forward to seeing Chairman Kim.  We have also established a very good relationship, which has never happened between him or his family and the United States.  They have really taken advantage of the United States.  Billions of dollars has been paid to them.  And we won't let that happen.

But we think that North Korea and Chairman Kim have a tremendous potential as an economic force, economic power.  Their location between South Korea and then Russia and China — right smack in the middle — is phenomenal.

And we think that they have a great chance for tremendous economic prosperity in the future.  So I look forward to seeing Chairman Kim in Vietnam.

Today, I'm announcing several critical actions that my administration has taken to confront a problem that we have right here at home.  We fight wars that are 6,000 miles away; wars that we should have never been in, in many cases.  But we don't control our own border.

So we're going to confront the national security crisis on our southern border.  And we're going to do it one way or the other — we have to do it — not because it was a campaign promise, which it is.  It was one of many, by the way; not my only one.  We're rebuilding the military, our economy is thriving like never before.

You look at other economies — they're doing terribly, and we're doing phenomenally.  The market is up tremendously today, not that that's anything, but, you know — because I'll go back in and they'll say, “Oh, the market just went down.”  But the market is getting close to the new highs that we created.  We have all the records.  We have every record.  But we're getting close to that point again where we'll create new records.

So our country is doing very well, economically.  And we've done a lot.  But one of the things I said I have to do and I want to do is border security, because we have tremendous amounts of drugs flowing into our country, much of it coming from the southern border.  When you look and when you listen to politicians — in particular, certain Democrats — they say it all comes through the port of entry.  It's wrong.  It's wrong.  It's just a lie.  It's all a lie.

They say walls don't work.  Walls work 100 percent.  Whether it's El Paso — I really was smiling, because the other night I was in El Paso — we had a tremendous crowd, and — tremendous crowd.  And I asked the people — many of whom were from El Paso, but they came from all over Texas.  And I asked them.  I said, “Let me ask you, as a crowd: When the wall went up, was it better?”  You were there, some of you.  It was not only better; it was like 100 percent better.  You know what they did.

But that's only one example.  There are so many examples.  In El Paso, they have close to 2,000 murders right on the other side of the wall.  And they had 23 murders.  It's a lot of murders, but it's not close to 2,000 murders right on the other side of the wall, in Mexico.

So everyone knows that walls work.  And there are better examples than El Paso, frankly.  You just take a look.  Almost everywhere.  Take a look at Israel.  They're building another wall.  Their wall is 99.9 percent effective, they told me — 99.9 percent.  That's what it would be with us, too.

The only weakness is they go to a wall and then they go around the wall.  They go around the wall and in.  Okay?  That's what it is.  It's very simple.  And a big majority of the big drugs — the big drug loads — don't go through ports of entry.  They can't go through ports of entry.  You can't take big loads because you have people — we have some very capable people; the Border Patrol, law enforcement — looking.

You can't take human traffic — women and girls — you can't take them through ports of entry.  You can't have them tied up in the backseat of a car or a truck or a van.  They open the door.  They look.  They can't see three women with tape on their mouth or three women whose hands are tied.

They go through areas where you have no wall.  Everybody knows that.  Nancy knows it.  Chuck knows it.  They all know it.  It's all a big lie.  It's a big con game.

You don't have to be very smart to know: You put up a barrier, the people come in, and that's it.  They can't do anything unless they walk left or right, and they find an area where there's no barrier, and they come into the United States.  Welcome.

We've detained more people.  Our border agents are doing such incredible work.  Our military has been incredible.  We put up barbed wire on top of certain old walls that were there.  We fixed the wall and we loaded it up with barbed wire.  It's very successful.

But our military has been fantastic, and I want to thank them.  And it's very necessary.  We've broken up two caravans that are on their way.  They just are breaking.  They're in the process of breaking up.  We have another one that we haven't been able to break up yet.

We've been actually working with Mexico much better than ever before.  I want to thank the President.  I want to thank Mexico.  They have their own problems.  They have the largest number of murders that they've ever had in their history — almost 40,000 murders.  Forty thousand.  And they got to straighten that out, and I think they will.

But I just want to thank the President, because he's been helping us with these monstrous caravans that have been coming up.  We had one that it was up to over 15,000 people.  It's largely broken up.  Others have gotten through.  And, in Tijuana, you have a lot of people staying there.  If we didn't have the wall up, and if we didn't have the wall secured and strengthened, they would have walked right through; they'd be welcomed to the United States.

One of the things we'd save tremendous — just a tremendous amount on would be sending the military.  If we had a wall, we don't need the military because we'd have a wall.

So I'm going to be signing a national emergency.  And it's been signed many times before.  It's been signed by other Presidents from 1977 or so.  It gave the Presidents the power.

There's rarely been a problem.  They sign it; nobody cares.  I guess they weren't very exciting.  But nobody cares.  They sign it for far less important things, in some cases, in many cases.  We're talking about an invasion of our country with drugs, with human traffickers, with all types of criminals and gangs.

We have some of the greatest people I know.  They've been with me from the beginning of my campaign — almost from the first week.  The Angel Moms.  Unfortunately, we have new Angel Moms.  One incredible woman just showed me her daughter who — we're talking about killed, in the year of '18.  I said, “I haven't seen you before.”  She said, “No, I'm new.”  I said, “That's too bad.”  It's too bad.  It's so sad.

Stand up, just for a second.  Show how beautiful your girl was.  Thank you.

I have such respect for these people.  Angel Moms, Angel Dads, Angel Families.  I have great respect for these people.  These are great people.  These are great people.  They're fighting for their children that have been killed by people that were illegally in this country.

And the press doesn't cover them; they don't want to, incredibly.  And they're not treated the way they should be.  They're fighting for other people because they don't want what happened to their children or husband or anybody.

We have one young lady whose husband — please, stand up.  Your husband was just killed in Maryland.  Incredible man.  Just killed.  Beautiful children — won't be seeing their father again.

These are brave people.  These are people that — they don't have to be here.  They don't have to be doing this.  They're doing it for other people.  So I just want to thank all of you for being here, okay?  I really do.  I want to thank you.  Incredible people.

Last year, 70,000 Americans were killed, at least — I think the number is ridiculously low — by drugs, including meth and heroin and cocaine, fentanyl.  And one of the things that I did with President Xi in China, when I met him in Argentina at a summit — before I even started talking about the trade — it was a trade meeting.  It went very well, but before I talked about trade, I talked about something more important.

I said, “Listen, we have tremendous amounts of fentanyl coming into our country.  It kills tens of thousands of people — I think far more than anybody registers.  And I'd love you to declare it a lethal drug and put it on your criminal list.”  And their criminal list is much tougher than our criminal list.  Their criminal list — a drug dealer gets a thing called the death penalty.  Our criminal list, a drug dealer gets a thing called, “How about a fine?”

And when I asked President Xi, I said, “Do you have a drug problem?”  “No, no, no.”  I said, “You have 1.4 billion people.  What do you mean you have no drug problem?”  “No, we don't have a drug problem.”  I said, “Why?” “Death penalty.  We give death penalty to people that sell drugs.”  End of problem.

What do we do?  We set up blue ribbon committees.  Lovely men and women — they sit around a table, they have lunch, they eat, they dine, and they waste a lot of time.  So if we want to get smart, we can get smart.  You can end the drug problem.  You can end it a lot faster than you think.

But President Xi has agreed to put fentanyl on his list of deadly, deadly drugs.  And it's a criminal penalty.  And the penalty is death.  So that's, frankly, one of the things I'm most excited about in our trade deal, if you want to know the truth.  I think maybe there's no more important point.

We're going to make billions of dollars with this trade deal.  It's going to be great for our country and great for China, I hope.  Their market is down close to 40 percent.  Our market is way up.  We've picked up, since my election, trillions of dollars of worth.  Trillions.  Many trillions.  And China has lost trillions of dollars.  But I want it to be good for China and I want it to be good for the United States.  So we'll see what happens.

China is coming here next week, by the way.  They're coming home, the traders.  And then China is coming here next week.  And then I'll be meeting with President Xi at some point after that to maybe — for some remaining deals.  We'll make them directly, one-on-one, ourselves.

So, we're going to be signing today, and registering, national emergency.  And it's a great thing to do because we have an invasion of drugs, invasion of gangs, invasion of people, and it's unacceptable.

And by signing the national emergency — something signed many times by other Presidents — many, many times.  President Obama — in fact, we may be using one of the national emergencies that he signed, having to do with cartels.  Criminal cartels.  It's a very good emergency that he signed.  And we're going to use parts of it in our dealings on cartels.  So that would be a second national emergency.  But, in that case, it's already in place.

And what we want — really want to do — is simple.  It's not like it's complicated.  It's very simple: We want to stop drugs from coming into our country.  We want to stop criminals and gangs from coming into our country.  Nobody has done the job that we've ever done.  I mean, nobody has done the job that we've done on the border.

And in a way, what I did by creating such a great economy — and if the opposing party got in, this economy would be down the tubes.  You know, I hear a lot of people say, “Oh, well.  But maybe the previous administration…”  Let me tell you, the previous administration, it was heading south, and it was going fast.  We would have been down the tubes.  The regulations were strangling our country.  Unnecessary regulations.

By creating such a strong economy — you just look at your televisions or see what's going on today; it's through the roof.  What happens is more people want to come, so we have far more people trying to get into our country today than probably we've ever had before.  And we've done an incredible job in stopping them, but it's a massive number of people.

If we had the wall, it would be very easy.  We would make up for the cost of the wall just in the cost of the fact that I would be able to have fewer people.  We wouldn't need all of this incredible talent, some of whom are sitting in the first row.  You wouldn't need all of this incredible talent.  We would get — we would get thousands of law enforcement people, including Border Patrol.  You put them in different areas, you have them doing different things.  Law enforcement and Border Patrol.

And I want to thank law enforcement, and I want to thank Border Patrol, and I want to thank ICE.  ICE is abused by the press and by the Democrats.  And, by the way, we're going to be taking care of ICE.  You know, we talk about the new bill.  We're going to be taking care of ICE.  They wanted to get rid of ICE.  And the bill is just the opposite of that.  A lot of good things happened.

So, that's the story.  We want to have a safe country.  I ran on a very simple slogan: “Make America Great Again.”  If you're going to have drugs pouring across the border, if you're going to have human traffickers pouring across the border in areas where we have no protection, in areas where we don't have a barrier, then very hard to make America great again.

But we've done a fantastic job, but we haven't been given the equipment.  We haven't been given the walls.  And in the bill, by the way, they didn't even fight us on most of the stuff.  Ports of entry.  We have so much money, we don't know what to do with it.  I don't know what to do with all the money they're giving us.  It's crazy.

The only place they don't want to give as much money — $1,375,000,000.  Sounds like a lot, but it's not so much, although we're putting it to much better use than it used to be.  A lot of the past administrations, they had — it was easy to get, and they didn't build or they didn't do what they could have done.  It would have been great.  It would have been great to have done it earlier, but I was a little new to the job, a little new to the profession.

And we had a little disappointment for the first year and a half.  People that should have stepped up did not step up.  They didn't step up, and they should have.  Would have been easy.  Not that easy, but it would have been a lot easier.  But some people didn't step up.  But we're stepping up now.

So we have a chance of getting close to $8 billion.  Whether it's $8 billion or $2 billion or $1.5 billion, it's going to build a lot of wall.  We're getting it done.  We're right now in construction with wall in some of the most important areas.  And we have renovated a tremendous amount of wall, making it just as good as new.  That's where a lot of the money has been spent — on renovation.  In fact, we were restricted to renovating, which is okay.  But we're going to run out of areas that we can renovate pretty soon.  So — and we need new wall.

So I want to thank everybody for being here.  I want to thank, in particular, the Angel Moms and Dads for being here.  Thank you very much.  We have great respect for you.  The real country, our real country — the people that really love our country, they love you.  So I just want you to know that.  I know how hard you fight and I know how hard a fight you're having.

I also want to thank all of the law enforcement for the job you do.  Believe me, our country loves you and they respect you greatly.  And we're giving you a lot of surplus.  We're giving you surplus military equipment, which a lot of people didn't like giving, previous to this administration.  But hundreds of millions of dollars of surplus equipment.  And as we get it, as you know, we send it down.  And you have much better protection.  But I really appreciate you being here.

So the order is signed.  And I'll sign the final papers as soon as I get into the Oval Office.  And we will have a national emergency, and then we will then be sued, and they will sue us in the Ninth Circuit, even though it shouldn't be there.  And we will possibly get a bad ruling, and then we'll get another bad ruling.  And then we'll end up in the Supreme Court, and hopefully we'll get a fair shake.  And we'll win in the Supreme Court, just like the ban.  They sued us in the Ninth Circuit, and we lost, and then we lost in the appellate division, and then we went to the Supreme Court, and we won.

And it was very interesting, because yesterday they were talking about the ban.  Because we have a ban.  It's very helpful.  Madam Secretary, is that right?  Without the ban, we'd have a bigger problem.  We have a ban on certain areas, certain countries, depending on what's going on in the world.  And we won.

But somebody said, “President Trump lost on the ban.”  Well, he was right; I lost at the lower court.  He — he didn't say that we ultimately won at the United States Supreme Court.  They didn't want to say that.  They didn't want to go that far.  They were saying how I lost.  The person sitting right up here — “Donald Trump lost on the ban.”  Yeah, I did.  And then I lost a second time; you should have said that, too.  And then it went to the Supreme Court and I won.  Didn't want to take it that far.  But we won on the ban and we won on other things, too.

The probably easiest one to win is on declaring a national emergency, because we're declaring it for virtual invasion purposes: drugs, traffickers, and gangs.  And one of the things, just to finish: We have removed thousands of MS-13 gang monsters.  Thousands.  They're out of this country.  We take them out by the thousands.  And they are monsters.

Okay.  Do you have any questions?  Yeah.  John, go ahead.

Q    Mr. President — (inaudible).

AIDE:  Yes, we do.  There you go.

Q    You were prepared.  Mr. President, a lot of the money —

THE PRESIDENT:  Were you saying I was prepared?

Q    With the microphone and prepared for questions.

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, I thought you meant I was prepared.  I couldn't believe you said that.

Q    (Laughs.)  No, no, no.  (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT:  People don't like saying that.

Q    You were prepared for questions.

THE PRESIDENT:  I am prepared.  I'm always prepared.

Q    A lot of the money that goes to count toward your $8 billion is money that's being reprogrammed in the DOD budget.  How can you guarantee to military families and to our men and women of the military that none of the money that would be reprogrammed to a wall will take away from other technology, other renovations, construction that is desperately needed in our military?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  So, John, we had certain funds that are being used at the discretion of generals, at the discretion of the military.  Some of them haven't been allocated yet, and some of the generals think that this is more important.  I was speaking to a couple of them.  They think this is far more important than what they were going to use it for.  I said, “What were you going to use it for?”  And I won't go into details, but it didn't sound too important to me.

Plus, if you think, I've gotten $700 billion for the military in year one, and then last year, $716 billion.  And we're rebuilding our military, but we have a lot.  And under the previous administration, our military was depleted — badly depleted.  And they weren't spending — I mean, they had a much less — they had a much smaller amount of money.

So when I got $700 billion, and then $716 billion — and this year, it's going to be pretty big too, because there's few things more important than our military.  You know, I'm a big deficit believer and all of that, but before we really start focusing on certain things, we have to build up our military.  It was very badly depleted.  And we're buying all new jetfighters, all new missiles, all new defensive equipment.  We have — we'll soon have a military like we've never had before.

But when you think about the kind of numbers you're talking about — so you have $700 billion, $716 billion — when I need $2 billion, $3 billion of out that for a wall — which is a very important instrument, very important for the military because of the drugs that pour in.  And as you know, we have specific rules and regulations where they have drugs, and what you can do in order to stop drugs.  And that's part of it, too.

We're taking a lot of money from that realm also.  But when you have that kind of money going into the military, this is a very, very small amount that we're asking for.

Yeah, go ahead.  Go ahead.  ABC.  Not NBC.  I like ABC a little bit more — not much.  Come on, ABC.  Not much.  Pretty close.

Q    Mr. President, what do you say to those, including some of your Republican allies, who say that you are violating the Constitution with this move and setting a bad precedent that will be abused by possibly Democratic Presidents in the future?  Marco Rubio has made this point.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, not too many people.  Yeah.  Not too many people have said that.  But the courts will determine that.

Look, I expect to be sued.  I shouldn't be sued.  Very rarely do you get sued when you do national emergency.  And then other people say, “Oh, if you use it for this, now what are we using it for?”  We got to get rid of drugs and gangs and people.  It's an invasion.  We have an invasion of drugs and criminals coming into our country that we stop, but it's very hard to stop.  With a wall, it would be very easy.

So I think that we will be very successful in court.  I think it's clear.  And the people that say we create precedent — well, what do you have?  Fifty-six?  There are a lot of times — well, that's creating precedent.  And many of those are far less important than having a border.  If you don't have a border, you don't have a country.

You know, we fight — before I got here — we fight all over the world to create borders for countries, but we don't create a border for our own country.

So I think what will happen is, sadly, we'll be sued, and sadly, it'll go through a process.  And, happily, we'll win — I think.

Go ahead.  Let's go.  Let's hear it, NBC.  Come on.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  I just want to say, in the past, when President Obama tried to use executive action as it related to immigration, you said, “The whole concept of executive order, it's not the way the country is supposed to be run.”  You said, “You're supposed to go through Congress and make a deal.”  Will you concede that you were unable to make the deal that you had promised in the past, and that the deal you're ending up with now from Congress is less than what you could have had before a 35-day shutdown?

THE PRESIDENT:  No.  Look, I went through Congress.  I made a deal.  I got almost $1.4 billion when I wasn't supposed to get one dollar — not one dollar.  “He's not going to get one dollar.”  Well, I got $1.4 billion.  But I'm not happy with it.  I also got billions and billions of dollars for other things — port of entries, lots of different things.  The purchase of drug equipment.  More than we were even requesting.

In fact, the primary fight was on the wall.  Everything else, we have so much, as I said, I don't know what to do with it we have so much money.  But on the wall, they skimped.

So I did — I was successful, in that sense, but I want to do it faster.  I could do the wall over a longer period of time.  I didn't need to do this.  But I'd rather do it much faster.  And I don't have to do it for the election.  I've already done a lot of wall, for the election — 2020.  And the only reason we're up here talking about this is because of the election, because they want to try and win an election, which it looks like they're not going to be able to do.  And this is one of the ways they think they can possibly win, is by obstruction and a lot of other nonsense.

And I think that I just want to get it done faster, that's all.

Okay.  Yes, ma'am, go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

Q    Roberta Rampton from Reuters.  I wanted to ask about China.  Do you feel that enough progress has been made in the talks to head off the increase in tariffs scheduled for March 1?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, you know, you're talking to the wrong person, because I happen to like tariffs, okay?  I mean, we're taking in billions and billions of dollars in tariffs from China.  And our steel industry now, as an example, we tax dumped steel — much of it comes from China — at 25 percent.  Our steel industry is so vibrant now again, they're building plants all over the United States.  It's a beautiful thing.  And from a defensive standpoint, and from any standpoint, you need steel.

You know, you can do without certain industries.  Our country cannot do without steel.

So, I love tariffs, but I also love them to negotiate.  And right now, China is paying us billions of dollars a year in tariffs.  And I haven't even started.

Now, here's the thing: If we make a deal, they won't have to pay.  You know, it'll be a whole different story.  They won't be paying that, but we'll have a fair deal.  There won't be intellectual property theft.  There won't be so many other things that have gone on.  And no other President has done this.  No other — you know, we didn't have a deal with China.  You had the WTO, one of the worst trade deals ever made — probably even worse than NAFTA, if that's believable, which, you know, hard to believe, because I think NAFTA was just a disaster.  It was a total disaster for our country.

And now we made the USMCA, which is going to be a terrific — a great deal.  And, by the way, the USMCA, from Mexico — that's United States, Mexico, Canada — that's where the money is coming from, not directly but indirectly, for the wall.  And nobody wants to talk about that.  Because we're saving billions and billions of dollars a year, if Congress approves that deal.

Now, they might now want to approve a deal just because they'll say — one of the things I'm thinking of doing — this has never been done before: No matter how good a deal I make with China, if they sell me Beijing for one dollar, if they give me 50 percent of their land and every ship that they've built over the last two years — which is a lot — and they give them to me free, the Democrats will say, “What a lousy deal; that's a terrible deal.”

Like, ZTE, I got a billion — more than a billion-dollar penalty in a short period of time.  And the Democrats said, “Oh, should've gotten more.”  When I made that deal, I said, “This is incredible.”  I just got — I got over a billion-dollar penalty, plus they had to change their board of directors.  They had to change their top management.  But they had to pay over a billion dollars.  I said, “What a deal.”  It took like a week.  And the Democrats didn't even know there was a problem with ZTE.

I'm the one that find them.  I'm the one that settled it.  Over a billion dollars.  And President Xi called me and he said it would be important to him if they could get a deal.  And we made a deal — paid — like, in a short period of time.

The Democrats went out and said, “Oh, they should've done better.”  So what I'm thinking of doing is getting Chuck Schumer, getting Nancy Pelosi, having them bring two or three of their brilliant representatives.  And we'll all go down together, and what we'll do is we'll negotiate.  I'll put them in the room and let them speak up.  Because any deal I make with China, if it's the great — it's going to be better than any deal that anybody ever dreamt possible, or I'm not going to have a deal.  It's a very simple.

But any deal I make with China, Schumer is going to stand up and say, “Oh, it should've been better.  It should've been better.”  And you know what?  That's not acceptable to me.  So I'm thinking about doing something very different.  I don't think it's ever been — I just don't want to be second-guessed.  But that's not even second-guess; that's called politics.  Sadly, I'd probably do the same thing to them, okay?

But any deal I make toward the end, I'm going to bring Schumer — at least offer him — and Pelosi.  I'm going to say, “Please join me on the deal.”

And, by the way, I just see our new Attorney General is sitting in the front row.  Please stand up, Bill.  (Applause.)  Such an easy job he's got.  He's got the easiest job in government.  Thank you and congratulations.  That was a great vote yesterday.  Thank you very much.

Q    Mr. President —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes, go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    In your remarks, sir, you said that you were too new to politics, earlier in your administration, when you would've preferred that this be done.  Is that an admission of how you might be changing on the job?  And —

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I'm learning.  I mean, I am learning.  Don't forget, it's not like I've done this for — a senator came into my office and said, “Sir, I've been running for office for 30 years.  I've won seven out of seven.  I did lose a couple when I was younger.”  I said, “Well, I've won one out of one.  But, you know, I never did politics before.  Now I do politics.”  I will tell you, I'm very disappointed at certain people, a particular one, for not having pushed this faster.

Q    Are you referring to Speaker Ryan, sir?

THE PRESIDENT:  But I've learned — who?

Q    Speaker Ryan.

THE PRESIDENT:  Let's not talk about it.

Q    Okay.

THE PRESIDENT:  What difference does it make?  But they should have pushed it faster.  They should have pushed it harder.  And they didn't.  They didn't.

If they would have, it would have been a little bit better.  In the meantime, I've built a lot of wall.  I have a lot of money, and I've built a lot of wall.  But it would've been nice to have gotten done.  And I would like to see major immigration reform, and maybe that's something we can all work on, Bill, where we all get together and do major immigration reform — not just for a wall, for a barrier; for port of entry, for other things.

We have a real problem.  We have catch-and-release.  You catch a criminal and you have to release them.  We have so many other things.  You have chain migration, where a bad person comes in, brings 22 or 23 or 35 of his family members — because he has his mother, his grandmother, his sister, his cousin, his uncle — they're all in.

You know what happened on the West Side Highway.  That young wise guy drove over and killed eight people and horribly injured — nobody talks about that — horribly — like, loss of legs and arms — going 60 miles an hour, he made a right turn into a park on the West Side Highway, along the Hudson River in New York.  He had many people brought in because he was in the United States.  It's called chain migration.

And then you have the lottery.  It's a horror show, because when countries put people into the lottery, they're not putting you in; they're putting some very bad people in the lottery.  It's common sense.  If I ran a country, and if I have a lottery system of people going to the United States, I'm not going to put in my stars; I'm going to put in people I don't want.  The lottery system is a disaster.  I'm stuck with it.

Q    Mr. President, could you tell us —

THE PRESIDENT:  It should have — wait.  It should have never happened.  Okay.

Q    Mr. President, could you tell us to what degree some of the outside conservative voices helped to shape your views on this national emergency?

THE PRESIDENT:  I would talk about it.  Look, Sean Hannity has been a terrific, terrific supporter of what I do.  Not of me.  If I changed my views, he wouldn't be with me.

Rush Limbaugh — I think he's a great guy.  Here's a guy who can speak for three hours without a phone call.  Try doing that sometime.  For three hours, he speaks.  He's got one of the biggest audiences in the history of the world.  I mean, this guy is unbelievable.  Try speaking for three hours without taking calls.  Taking calls is easy.  “Okay, I'll answer this one.  I'll answer that one.”  He goes for three hours, and he's got an audience that's fantastic.

Q    Should they be —

THE PRESIDENT:  Wait —

Q    Should they be deciding policy, sir?

THE PRESIDENT:   They don't decide policy.  In fact, if I went opposite — I mean, they have somebody — Ann Coulter.  I don't know her.  I hardly know her.  I haven't spoken to her in way over a year.  But the press loves saying “Ann Coulter.”  Probably, if I did speak to her, she'd be very nice.  I just don't have the time to speak to her.  I would speak to her; I have nothing against her.

In fact, I like her for one reason: When they asked her, like right at the beginning, who was going to win the election, she said, “Donald Trump.”  And the two people that asked her that question smiled.  They said, “You're kidding, aren't you?”  “Nope.  Donald Trump.”

So I like her, but she's off the reservation.  But anybody that knows her understands that.  But I haven't spoken to her.  I don't follow her.  I don't talk to her.  But the press loves to bring up the name “Ann Coulter.”  And you know what?  I think she's fine.  I think she's good.  But I just don't speak to her.

Laura has been great.  Laura Ingraham.  Tucker Carlson has been great.  I actually have a couple people on CNN that have been very good.  I have some on MSNBC.  The other day, they did a great report of me.  I said, “Where the hell did that come from?”  I think it was the only one in over a year.

So the crazy thing is, I just had, as you know, Rasmussen — 52 percent in the polls.  It's my highest poll number.  And people get what we're doing.  They get it.  They really get it.  And I'm honored by it.

Yes.  Jim Acosta.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  I wonder if you could comment on this disconnect that we seem to have in this country, where you are presenting information about what's happening at the border — calling it an “invasion,” talking about women with duct tape over their mouths, and so on — and yet there's a lot of reporting out there, there's a lot of crime data out there, there's a lot of Department of Homeland Security data out there that shows border crossings at a near-record low —

THE PRESIDENT:  That's because of us.  But it's still —

Q    — that shows undocumented immigrants committing crime at lower levels —

THE PRESIDENT:  Excuse me.  It's still massive numbers of crossings.

Q    — that shows undocumented criminals — or undocumented immigrants committing crime at lower levels than native-born Americans.  What do you say —

THE PRESIDENT:  You don't really believe that stat, do you?  Do you really believe that stat?

Q    What do you — well, let me ask you this —

THE PRESIDENT:  Take a look at our federal prisons.

Q    I believe in facts and statistics and data, but —

THE PRESIDENT:  Okay?  Any more?  Quick, let's go.

Q    Let me just ask you this: What do you say to your critics who say that you are creating a national emergency, that you're concocting a national emergency here in order to get your wall because you couldn't get it through other ways?

THE PRESIDENT:  I ask the Angel Moms: What do you think?  Do you think I'm creating something?

Ask these incredible women, who lost their daughters and their sons.  Okay?

PARTICIPANT:  This is real.

THE PRESIDENT:  Because your question is a very political question because you have an agenda.  You're CNN.  You're fake news.  You have an agenda.  The numbers that you gave are wrong.

Take a look at our federal prison population.  See how many of them, percentage-wise, are illegal aliens.  Just see.  Go ahead and see.  It's a fake question.

Yes.  Go ahead.

Q    Can I ask a follow-up?

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  Just to follow up on that, unifying crime reporting statistics — numbers from your own Border Patrol, numbers from this government — show that the amount of illegal immigrants are down, there is not violence on the border, and that most —

THE PRESIDENT:  There's not violence on the border?

Q    There's not as much violence as —

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, really?

Q    Let me — wait a minute.  Wait a minute.  Wait —

THE PRESIDENT:  You had 26 people killed —

Q    Let me finish the question, please.  Let me finish the question, please.

THE PRESIDENT:  Two weeks ago, 26 people were killed in a gunfight on the border —

Q    I understand what you're — I understand what you're saying.

THE PRESIDENT:  — a mile away from where I went.

Q    I was there.  I understand.  That's not the question.  The question is —

THE PRESIDENT:  Do we forget about that?

Q    No, I'm not forgetting about it.  I'm asking you to clarify where you get your numbers, because most of the DEA crime reporting statistics that we see show that drugs are coming across at the ports of entry, that illegal immigration is down, and the violence is down.

THE PRESIDENT:  Okay.

Q    So what do you base your facts on?

THE PRESIDENT:  Okay, let me — come on, let's go.  Sort of — sort of —

Q    And, secondly —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, no.  You get one.  You get one.  Ready?

Q    Well, the second question is —

THE PRESIDENT:  Just sit down.  Wait.  Sit down.  Sit down.

Q    Could you please answer it?

THE PRESIDENT:  Sit down.  You get one question.

I get my numbers from a lot of sources — like Homeland Security, primarily.  And the numbers that I have from Homeland Security are a disaster.  And you know what else is a disaster?  The numbers that come out of Homeland Security, Kirstjen, for the cost that we spend and the money that we lose because of illegal immigration: Billions and billions of dollars a month.  Billions and billions of dollars.  And it's unnecessary.

Q    So your own government stats are wrong, are you saying?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, no.  I use many stats.  I use many stats.

Q    Could you share those stats with us?

THE PRESIDENT:  Let me tell you, you have stats that are far worse than the ones that I use.  But I use many stats, but I also use Homeland Security.

All right, next question.

Q    And do you — wait a minute.  Just a quick follow-up.

THE PRESIDENT:  Go ahead.  No.  Go.  Please.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  I just want to bring you back to China for a second.  The White House put out a statement today talking about the March 1st deadline.  The other day, though, you gave the possibility that maybe this could slide.  Are you eyeing a possible extension — 30 days, maybe 60 days?  What is the status there?  Or is March 1st the deadline?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  Very good question.  So it's a very big deal.  I guess you could say it's like — must be the biggest deal ever made, if you think.  Trade with China, how big does that get?  Although if you look, the USCMA is right up there.  But it's very complicated.  There are many, many points that we're bringing up that nobody ever brought up or thought to bring up, but they're very important, because we were on the wrong side of every one of them.

There is a possibility that I will extend the date.  And if I do that, if I see that we're close to a deal or the deal is going in the right direction, I would do that at the same tariffs that we're charging now.  I would not increase the tariffs.

Q    Let me also ask you about the debt, sir, because it's gone from a shade under $20 trillion from when you took office.  Now it's a shade over $22 trillion and heading in the wrong direction.  What are your plans to reverse it?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, it's all about growth.  But before I —

Q    (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  — really focus on that — and you have to remember, President Obama put on more debt on this country than every President in the history of our country combined.  So when I took over, we had one man that put on more debt than every other President combined.  Combine them all.  So you can't be talking about that.  But I talk about it because I consider it very important.

But first, I have to straighten out the military.  The military was depleted.  And if we don't have a strong military — that hopefully we won't have to use because it's strong — if we don't have a strong military, you don't have to worry about debt; you have bigger problems.  So I have to straighten out the military.  That's why I did the $700- and $716 billion.  But growth will straighten it out.

You saw last month, the trade deficit went way down.  Everybody said, “What happened?”  Well, what's happening is growth.  But before I can focus too much on that, a very big expense is military.  And we have no choice but to straighten out our military.

Q    Is growth the only answer, sir, or is (inaudible)?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes, ma'am, go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  On North Korea — back on the last summit, you guys came out with a pretty general agreement.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

Q    I was wondering what you thought has, you know, been accomplished since the last summit.  And then —

THE PRESIDENT:  A lot.

Q    — are we going to be seeing anything concrete —

THE PRESIDENT:  A lot has been accomplished.  Okay.

Q    — on denuclearization.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  A lot has been accomplished.  We're dealing with them, we're talking to them.

When I came into office, I met right there, in the Oval Office, with President Obama.  And I sat in those beautiful chairs and we talked.  It was supposed to be 15 minutes.  As you know, it ended up being many times longer than that.

And I said, “What's the biggest problem?”  He said, “By far, North Korea.”  And I don't want to speak for him, but I believe he would have gone to war with North Korea.  I think he was ready to go to war.  In fact, he told me he was so close to starting a big war with North Korea.  And where are we now?  No missiles.  No rockets.  No nuclear testing.  We've learned a lot.

But much more importantly than all of it — much more important — much, much more important that that is we have a great relationship.  I have a very good relationship with Kim Jong Un.  And I've done a job.  In fact, I think I can say this: Prime Minister Abe of Japan gave me the most beautiful copy of a letter that he sent to the people who give out a thing called the Nobel Prize.  He said, “I have nominated you…” or “Respectfully, on behalf of Japan, I am asking them to give you the Nobel Peace Prize.”  I said, “Thank you.”  Many other people feel that way too.  I'll probably never get it, but that's okay.

They gave it to Obama.  He didn't even know what he got it for.  He was there for about 15 seconds and he got the Nobel Prize.  He said, “Oh, what did I get it for?”  With me, I probably will never get it.

But if you look at Idlib Province in Syria, I stopped the slaughter of perhaps 3 million people.  Nobody talk about that.  They don't talk about that.  Russia and Iran and Syria were going to go in and perhaps destroy 3 million people in order to get 45,000 terrorists.  And I heard about it from a woman who had her parents and her brothers living there, and she said, “Please, please.”  And I thought — I said, “No, it can't happen.  What are you talking about?”  “No, they're going to get…”  And I come home, and I read a certain paper where the story was there that they were actually forming to go into — to really — to really do big destruction.  And I put out a statement that “you better not do it.”

And in all fairness to Russia and Iran and Syria, they didn't attack.  Or they're doing it surgically, at least.  Saved a lot of people.  We do a lot of good work.  This administration does a tremendous job, and we don't get credit for it.  But I think the people understand what we do.

So Prime Minister Abe gave me — I mean, it's the most beautiful five letter — five-page letter.  Nobel Prize.  He sent it to them.  You know why?  Because he had rocket ships and he had missiles flying over Japan.  And they had alarms going off; you know that.  Now, all of a sudden, they feel good; they feel safe.  I did that.

And it was a very tough dialogue at the beginning.  Fire and fury.  Total annihilation.  “My button is bigger than yours” and “my button works.”  Remember that?  You don't remember that.  And people said, “Trump is crazy.”  And you know what it ended up being?  A very good relationship.  I like him a lot and he likes me a lot.  Nobody else would have done that.

The Obama administration couldn't have done it.  Number one, they probably wouldn't have done it.  And number two, they didn't have the capability to do it.

So I just want to thank everybody.  I want to wish our Attorney General great luck and speed, and enjoy your life.  (Laughter.)  Bill, good luck.  A tremendous reputation.  I know you'll do a great job.  Thank you very much.  And thank you, everybody.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much everybody.  We've had a great three days at the United Nations in New York.  And this is quite a gathering.  Wow.  It's a lot of people.  A lot of media.  (Laughter.)

We've covered a great deal of territory.  Just left, as you know, Prime Minister Abe of Japan.  We're starting trade talks with Japan.  They were not willing, for years, to talk trade, and now they're willing to talk trade.  And I'm sure we'll make a very good deal.

Just concluded, as you know — two days ago, signed a deal with South Korea — a trade deal.  A tremendous deal with South Korea.  It means a lot of business for our farmers.  We're opening up for farmers.  We're opening up for a lot of different groups.

We're going to be able to sell much more than double the number of automobiles that we were allowed under a deal that was totally defective that was there before.  And so we're very happy with that.  That deal is actually concluded.

We're very well along the way with Mexico.  The relationship is very good.  And with Canada, we'll see what happens.  They're charging us 300-percent tariffs on dairy products.  We can't have that.  We can't have that.

With China, as you know, we put out an announcement today.  They would like to see me lose an election because they've never been challenged like this.  But I want to open up China to our farmers and to our industrialists and our companies.  And China is not open, but we're open to them.  They charge us 25, 35, 55 percent for things, and we charge them nothing in terms of coming into the country.

Cars, they're at 25 percent.  And we're at 2 percent and 2.5 percent, and don't even collect it.  But we collect it now.

So we're doing very well in our situation with China on trade.  I have a great relationship with the President of China, President Xi.  But it's got to be a two-way street.  It — for 25 years and longer, it was not.  And trillions and trillions of dollars was taken out of the United States for the benefit of China.  We just can't have that.  We have to make it fair.

So we're at $250 billion now, at 25 percent interest.  And a lot of money is coming into our coffers.  And it's had no impact on our — absolutely, by the way, no impact on our economy, which I said it wouldn't.

In fact, steel is like the hottest industry there is.  If you look at what happened with steel, we're charging a 25 percent tariff for the dumpers.  They dump massive amounts of steel.  They want to put the steel companies out of business.  And after they're out of business, they'll come in and charge five times more than you ever thought possible.  And we need steel and we need aluminum.  And those industries are doing well.

But steel is incredible.  U.S. Steel is opening up a minimum of eight plants.  Nucor is opening up plants.  And these are big plants — $750 million and a billion dollar plants, in some cases.

So what's happening with the steel industry is very exciting to me.  It's being rebuilt overnight.  If you look at the miners in coal, if you look at energy, LNG — Japan just gave us some numbers that are incredible.  They're doubling the amount that they are going to be buying for Japan.  They're taking the LNG and they're doubling it up.

I said, “You have to do me a favor.  We don't want these big deficits.  You're going to have to buy more.”  They're buying massive amounts of equipment and military equipment, and other countries are doing the same thing.  Because we have trade imbalances with almost everybody.  It's a rare exception that we don't.

So we are doing great as a country.  Unfortunately, they just raised interest rates a little bit because we are doing so well.  I'm not happy about that, because I know it's going to be a question.  I am not happy about that.  I'd rather pay down debt or do other things, create more jobs.  So I'm worried about the fact that they seem to like raising interest rates.  We can do other things with the money.  And — but they raised them.  And they're raising them because we're doing so well.  You know, we're doing much better than I had projected in terms of — when I was campaigning, I said we were going to do this and we're doing much better than anybody ever thought possible.

And, I will say, if others got in, it would have been just the opposite because they were going to put restrictions on.  They were going to put regulations on.  They were going to choke the economy as it was already choking, but it would have been worse.  And they were going to raise your taxes.  That's what they want to do now if they ever got control, which I don't think they'll have control for a long time.

So, with that being said, we'll take some questions and — yes, please.  John, go ahead.  We have plenty of time.

Q    Mr. President, thank you very much.  Of course, what you're looking forward to tomorrow is the hearings with Judge Kavanaugh —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

Q    — before the Judiciary Committee.  In 1991, when Joe Biden passed along to the Bush 41 White House the allegations that Anita Hill had raised against Clarence Thomas, the Bush White House asked the FBI to look into it as part of Judge Thomas's background investigation — not a criminal investigation, but the background investigation.

THE PRESIDENT:  Right.  Right.

Q    When these allegations were raised, why didn't this White House do the same thing?  And with all of the allegations that are coming out now about Judge Kavanaugh, was there an opportunity missed here to have investigators look into this and get some sort of clarity one way or the other?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, the FBI told us they've investigated Judge Kavanaugh six times, five times, many times over the years.  They know him very well.  But here, there was nothing to investigate from at least one standpoint.  They didn't know the location.  They didn't know the time.  They didn't know the year.  They didn't know anything.  And it's like, where do you go?

Also, it's not for the FBI.  If you look at what Joe Biden said, he said, “They don't do this.”  And he said it very clearly.

So I think when you really look at it all, it's not going to change any of the Democrats' minds.  They're obstructionists.  They're actually con artists because they know how quality this man is and they've destroyed a man's reputation and they want to destroy it even more.

And I think people are going to see that in the midterms.  What they've done to this family, what they've done to these children — these beautiful children of his — and what they've done to his wife.  And they know it's a big, fat con job.

And they go into a room and, I guarantee you, they laugh like hell at what they've pulled off on you and on the public.  They laugh like hell.

So, it wouldn't have mattered if the FBI came back with the cleanest score.  And you understand that very well, John.  If they would have come back with the most perfect — “We found everything, and he's perfectly innocent of everything.”  It wouldn't have made a difference.  You wouldn't have gotten one vote.

Now we will get votes from the Democrats if we win.  You'll have three, four, or five Democrats giving us votes, because they're in states that I won by 30 and 40 points and they're going to give us votes.

But other than that, you probably won't get any, John.

Yes, go ahead.  Please.

Q    Mr. President, there are now three women accusing Judge Kavanaugh of sexual misconduct.  Are you saying that all three of those women are liars?  Is there anything that can be said at this point tomorrow —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

Q    — that could cause you to withdraw the nomination?  Anything at all that —

THE PRESIDENT:  I won't get into that game.  I'll only tell you this: This is one of the highest quality people that I've ever met, and everybody that knows him says the same thing.  And these are all false — to me, these are false accusations in certain cases.  And certain cases, even the media agrees with that.

I can only say that, what they've done to this man is incredible.  You know, it's very interesting — I pick a lot of judges.  I have 145 judges I will be picking by the end of a fairly short period of time because President Obama wasn't big on picking judges.  When I got there, I said, “How is this possible?”  I have 145 — including court of appeals — judges.  And they just didn't do it.  You know why?  They got tired.  They got complacent.  Something happened.  I have 145 judges.

Everybody wants to be a federal judge.  Not just a Supreme Court judge, I'm talking about court of appeals; I'm talking about district court.  I don't think they're going to want to so much.  I'll be calling people, and we'll have people calling people that do this.  And people are going to be scared because we could say it about you, “Thirty-five years ago, you met some…” — and you might know — you might not know what's going on.

What is going on?  Why did they wait so long?  Why did Senator Feinstein wait until the hearings were over and make this case?  Why didn't she bring it right at the beginning?  When you ask about, as an example, the FBI — why didn't they bring this right at the beginning, during the hearing?  You would have had all the time in the world for the FBI.  It would have been fine.

Now the FBI, as you know, did investigate this time, as they have five or six other times.  And they did a very thorough investigation.  But this is a big con job.  And I would love to be in the room with the Democrats, close the door — you guys are all away, outside, waiting.  And Schumer and his buddies are all in there laughing how they fooled you all.  Let's just stop them.  A big fat con.

Yeah, go ahead.

Q    But, Mr. President, if I could follow up.  You have daughters.  Can you understand why a victim of sexual assault would not report it at the time?  Don't you understand —

THE PRESIDENT:  By the way, I only say this: thirty-six years — no charge, no nothing.  Everybody —

Q    But — but that happens often.  I mean —

THE PRESIDENT:  People are going to have to make a decision.  Thirty-six years, there's no charge.  All of a sudden, the hearings are over and the rumors start coming out.

And then you have this other con artist, Avenatti, come out with another beauty today.  I only say that you have to look at the facts.  The senators are very capable people.  They're very good people.  I know many of them.  They're friends of mine.  These are very talented, very good people.  And they're going to vote.  They're going to believe what they believe.

I can — when I look at what's happened to the reputation of a great gentleman — a great intellect; a brilliant man; somebody that has a chance to be one of our great Supreme Court Justices in history, intellectually — I think it's a shame.

Yes, please.

Q    Yes, Mr. President.  My name is Tomas Regalado from Radio and TV Marti.  Mr. President, yesterday at the speech at the U.N., you spoke about how Venezuela's problem was because of Cuba and the Castros — how they went in there and they brought socialism and communism to Venezuela, and now to Nicaragua as well.

Mr. President, are you going to be more proactive now against Cuba as well?

THE PRESIDENT:  I've been very proactive against Cuba.  I don't like what's happening in Cuba.  As you know, President Obama gave them a pass and I didn't like it.  Neither do Cuban people based in Miami and based in our country that came from Cuba and suffered in Cuba.

I don't like what he did.  I've ended much of it — most of it.  I don't like what's happening in Cuba, and I certainly don't like what's happening in Venezuela.

Yes, please.

Q    Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Go ahead.

Q    Mr. President, just to finish really fast.  You said also that you had a call-to-action to ask the leaders around the world to also end socialism.  Would you like to be recognized as —

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I wouldn't say that socialism has bene working really well around the world, okay.  You can take a look at Venezuela as your number one — your number one — I guess, the one that is most obvious.  But you take a look around the world, socialism is not exactly riding high.

Please.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you very much.  If you don't mind, after I'm finished, if Weijia, or Hallie, or Vivian, or one of our female colleagues could go after me, that would be great.

Mr. President, just to follow up on these allegations against Brett Kavanaugh —

THE PRESIDENT:  What does he mean by that?  Explain.  What does that mean?

Q    I think it would be great if a female reporter —

THE PRESIDENT:  What does it mean?  No, what does it mean?

Q    I think it would great if a female reporter would ask you a question about this issue.  So if you don't mind, I would ask —

THE PRESIDENT:  I wouldn't mind that at all.  No.  Wouldn't mind it at all.

Q    All right.  Well, let me — if I could call on —

THE PRESIDENT:  Wouldn't make any difference to me.

Q    All right.

THE PRESIDENT:  Go ahead.

Q    If I could follow up on John, and John's question.  Why is it, Mr. President, that you always seem to side with the accused and not the accuser?  You have three women here who are all making allegations, who are all asking that their stories be heard.  And, you know, if you look at the case of Roy Moore, if you look at the case of one of your staffers, you seem to, time and again, side with the accused and not the accuser.  Is that because of the many allegations that you've had made against you over the years?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, first of all, I wasn't happy with Roy Moore.  Let's get that straight.  But Roy Moore was a Republican candidate —

Q    But you stood by him.

THE PRESIDENT:  — and I would have rather had a Republican candidate win.  I was very happy with Luther Strange, who was a terrific man from Alabama, but Luther Strange had a lot of things going against him.

As far as women, whether it's a man or a woman, these are — you know, it can happen the other way.  Allegations can go the other way also.  You understand that.  And whether it was a man or a woman, 30 years ago, 36 years ago — in fact, they don't even know how many years ago because nobody knows what the time is.  That's a long time.

And I could pick, as an example — hopefully I won't have to do it as a replacement because hopefully this is going to go very well on Thursday.  It's going to go very well on Monday, or Saturday, or Sunday, or whenever they vote.  But I could pick a woman and she could have charges made from many years ago also.

Q    But don't you understand, sir, that many of these —

THE PRESIDENT:    And I would look at the character —

Q    — many of these accusers —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, what I have to do —

Q    — are reluctant to come forward.  You've raised doubts about these accusers.  Many of them are reluctant to come forward.

THE PRESIDENT:  I don't think people are reluctant to come forward.  They're going to have a chance to speak at a major — they have a major chance to speak.

Q    But you're saying why (inaudible) —

THE PRESIDENT:  Excuse me.  Excuse me.  They have a major chance to speak.  And it will be tomorrow, I assume.

We've delayed this — meaning the Republican senators, not me.  The Republicans senators have delayed this for weeks now.  They're giving the women a major chance to speak.

Now it's possible I'll hear that, and I'll say, “Hey, I'm changing my mind.”  That is possible.  We want to give them a chance to speak.  And they're given —

Q    Do you think all three should have a chance — all three should have a chance to speak?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, whoever is given a chance.  We've delayed it a long time.  But they're going to have a big shot at speaking and making their case.  And you know what?  I could be persuaded also.  Okay?

Yes.  Please.  Please, go ahead.  Go ahead.  I would like to go — yes, go ahead.  Please.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  And a couple of questions for you to follow up on some answers that I didn't quite hear from you, if you would allow me a couple of questions.

First of all, do you think these women — all three of them are liars?  Yes or no?

THE PRESIDENT:  Have they been what?

Q    Are they liars?

THE PRESIDENT:  I can't tell you.  I have to watch tomorrow.  I have to read.  I just heard about one a little while ago.  I can tell you her lawyer is a low life, okay?  So I can't tell you whether or not they're liars until I hear them.

I don't know what happened today because I've been very busy with Japan, with South Korea, with China, and about seven other countries, as you know — and I chaired the Security Council.

So I don't know about today's person that came forward.  I do know about the lawyer.  And you don't get much worse — bad reputation, too.  Take a look at his past.

So, as far as the other women are concerned, I'm going to see what happens tomorrow.  I'm going to be watching — you know, believe it or not.  I'm going to see what's said.  It's possible that they will be convincing.

Now, with all of that being said, Judge Brett Kavanaugh has been, for many years, one of the most respected people in Washington.  He's been on — I guess you'd call it the second highest court.  And every single person knows him; a lot of people know him well. And those people don't believe what's going on.  I can always be convinced.  I have to hear it.

Q    It sounds like what you're saying is, there is a situation, there is a scenario under which you would withdraw Brett Kavanaugh's nomination.  Is that correct?  And have you talked about that with him?

THE PRESIDENT:  If I thought he was — if I thought he was guilty of something like this, yeah sure.

Q    And you will wait until tomorrow to make up your mind about it?

THE PRESIDENT:  I want to watch.  I want to see.  I hope I can watch.  I'm meeting with a lot of countries tomorrow, but I will certainly, in some form, be able to watch.  And I'll also rely on some very fair and talented Republican senators who — look, if we brought George Washington here and we said, “We have George Washington,” the Democrats would vote against him, just so you understand.

And he may have had a bad past, who knows, you know.  (Laughter.)  He may have had some, I think, accusations made.  Didn't he have a couple of things in his past?  George Washington would be voted against 100 percent by Schumer and the con artists.  I mean 100 percent.  One hundred percent.

So it really doesn't matter from their standpoint.  That's why when John asked about the FBI — if the FBI did the most thorough investigation in the history of the FBI, and they found him to be 100-percent perfect, he would lose every single vote.

Now, if the Republicans win tomorrow, I think you're going to get some votes from the Democrats.  You know why?  Because — we all know why — because it's called politics.  Then you'll probably get some votes.

Okay, let's go.

Q    And my final question, sir,

THE PRESIDENT: One more question.  Yes.

Q    Just to follow up —

THE PRESIDENT:  She stands up: “I'd like to ask about three questions.”  It's not really fair to everyone else.

Q    This will be my last one —

THE PRESIDENT:  Should I let her ask another question?

(Crosstalk.)

Q    — to follow up on —

THE PRESIDENT:  Go ahead.  See?

Q    — to follow up on a question that a colleague asked as well about the benefit of the doubt that you have given to people like Roy Moore, to Roger Ailes, to Bill O'Reilly, to Brett Kavanaugh.  They're all men.  Why is that?

THE PRESIDENT:  It's not a benefit of the doubt.  I've —

Q    Has there ever been an instance when you've given the benefit of the doubt to a woman?

THE PRESIDENT:  I've known them.  Hallie, I've know them for a long time and — a lot of these people.  A lot of people.  And some I've been disappointed with.  I have been disappointed with some.  Others, like — you know, there are charges that are pretty weak.

But I've known people for a long time.  I never saw them do anything wrong.  I never saw them do anything wrong.  And there are some that probably — I agree.  I can tell you there are some that I — I've been watching for a long time.  And in a couple of cases, they weren't Republicans.  In a lot of cases, they were not; they were exactly the opposite.

But I've been watching them for a long time.  And I knew for a long time these were not good people.  And they were never brought up.

Okay.  Yes, ma'am.  Go ahead.

Thank you very much by the way.  Thank you.

Q    Thank you very much, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you.

Q    When the allegations first surfaced, you initially said how important it was for Dr. Ford to testify and that you wanted to hear from her.

THE PRESIDENT:  I do.

Q    But —

THE PRESIDENT:  I wish it could have gone quicker.

Q    Well, you also said that if what she said were as bad as she claims, surely her or her parents would have reported it.  And just today, you said, you wouldn't —

THE PRESIDENT: Well, there is a truth.  I mean there is a chance that her parents could have reported it 36 years ago.

Q    So my question is —

THE PRESIDENT:  It doesn't mean they had to report it because, in some instances, people keep it quiet.  It's a very tough situation for a woman, there's no question about it.  And in some cases, they do report it.  Frankly, had they reported it, it would've been pretty amazing, wouldn't it?

But I guess they didn't, and that's okay.  I'm not saying they had to report it because it's a very personal thing.  It's a very big problem, there's no question about it.

Go ahead.

Q    But do you want to hear her story before you draw a conclusion —

THE PRESIDENT:  I'd like to hear her story, yeah.  Well, we're giving her a time.

Q    — or have you already made up your mind?

THE PRESIDENT:  They would've given her time last week.  This is the United States Senate.  This is the most important position that a President can give out, I think we can say, by far.  I've actually heard it's the most important decision a President can make.  I disagree with that.  War and peace — I always say, “War and peace.”  And after that, Supreme Court Justice.  Right?

I look forward to hearing from her.  We could've heard from her last week; we could have heard from her for a long time.  It'll be interesting to hear what she has to say.  Okay?

Q    And let me follow up on Jim's question.  Mr. President, let me follow up on Jim's question that I don't think we got an answer to.

THE PRESIDENT:  Which one?  Which question?  Who?

Q    How have your personal experiences being accused by more than a dozen women of sexual misconduct —

THE PRESIDENT:  I've been accused.  I've been accused.  False accusations.

Q    — right, how have those —

THE PRESIDENT:  Excuse me.  I've been accused.  And I was accused by — I believe, it was — four women.  You can check with Sean Hannity.  You can check with Fox, because they covered it very strongly — who got paid.

Q    And how has (inaudible) —

THE PRESIDENT:  Excuse me.  Excuse me.  I was accused by four or five women who got paid a lot of money to make up stories about me.  We caught them, and the mainstream media refused to put it on television.  They refused to even write about it.

There were four women, and maybe more — I think the number is four or five.  But one had a mortgage paid off her house, $52,000.  Another one had other things happen.  And the one that reported it, I believe, was offered $750,000 to say bad things about me — and she is the one that reported it.  This woman is incredible.  She reported it, instead of taking the money.

So I've had numerous accusations about me.

Q    Right.

THE PRESIDENT:  I mean, they made false statements about me, knowing they were false.  I never met them.  I never met these people.  And, what did they do?  What did they do?

They took money in order to say bad things.  I've had stories written in the New York Times — front page — about four women.  The whole top center front page of the New York Times.  I think it was four big pictures.

I said, “Wow.  That's a big thing.  What's that?”  These were women that were quoted saying bad things about me.  Not the worst things about me, but bad things.  And I said, “Gee, that's too bad.”  I knew them a long time ago — 15 years ago, 20 years ago.  I said, “That's too bad.  I'm surprised at them.”

And then all of a sudden I see them on television — nothing to do with me.  The next day or a day later, they were incensed.  They said, “Donald Trump is a nice guy.  We never said this.  The New York Times did false reporting.  They're fake news.”  And you know what?  The New York Times would not report that their story was fake.

These women said great things. Not only did they not say the bad stuff, they said great things about me.  Front page.  And those women — they're incredible women — they went on television — and they didn't want to, and I didn't ask them.  And they said, “The New York Times made it up.  They gave false quotes.”  And they went on a lot of shows.  They were really incensed and they couldn't believe it.

That's why people know that a lot of the news is fake.  And a lot of the people sitting here are fake.  But 20 percent of them are wonderful.  Okay?

Q    If I could just actually ask my question, Mr. Trump.  I — you didn't let me ask my question.

THE PRESIDENT:  You've been asking a question for 10 minutes, all right?

Q    No, you interrupted my question.

THE PRESIDENT:  Please sit down. Please.

Q    I'm asking you —

THE PRESIDENT:  Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    — how did those impact your opinions on the allegations against Judge Kavanaugh?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, it does impact my opinion.  You know why?  Because I've had a lot of false charges made against me.  I'm a very famous person, unfortunately.  I've been a famous person for a long time.  But I've had a lot of false charges made against me — really false charges.

I know friends that have had false charges.  People want fame.  They want money.  They want whatever.  So when I see it, I view it differently than somebody sitting home watching television, where they say, “Oh, Judge Kavanaugh…” this or that.

It's happened to me many times.  I've had many false charges; I had a woman sitting in an airplane and I attacked her while people were coming onto the plane.  And I have a number-one bestseller out?  I mean it was total phony story.  There are many of them.

So when you say, does it affect me in terms of my thinking with respect to Judge Kavanaugh?  Absolutely.  Because I've had it many times.

And if the news would have reported these four people — I couldn't believe it.  When I heard that they caught these four people, I said, “Wow.  That's a big story.”  And it was — for Fox.  Okay.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  Earlier today and just now, you made a significant allegation against the Chinese government.  You suggested that the Chinese —

THE PRESIDENT:  I did.

Q    — had meddled in or are meddling in —

THE PRESIDENT:  That's right.  That's what I hear.

Q    — the 2018 midterm elections.

THE PRESIDENT:  That's what I hear.

Q    What evidence do you have of that, sir?  Is there a national intelligence estimate, for example, that you're prepared to put forward?

THE PRESIDENT:  We have evidence.  We have evidence.  It'll come out.  Yeah, I can't tell you now, but it came — it didn't come out of nowhere, that I can tell you.

Now, if you — they've actually admitted that they're going after farmers.  I mean, I think most of you can cover that.

I like that you're shaking your head, “yes.”  I'm going to ask you the next question because of that. Okay?  It's probably going to be the killer of all questions.  (Laughter.)  But let me just explain —

Q    But why make the charges now —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, no, no.  Let me —

Q    — if you're not prepared to come forward with the evidence, sir?

THE PRESIDENT:  China, now, put on $250 billion, and they're paying 25 percent on that.  They're paying billions and billions.  This has never happened to China.  And I like China.  And I like President Xi a lot.  I think he's a friend of mine.  He may not be a friend of mine anymore, but he — I think he probably respects —

From what I hear — if you look at Mr. Pillsbury, the leading authority on China — he was on a good show — I won't mention the name of the show — recently.  And he was saying that China has total respect for Donald Trump and for Donald Trump's very, very large brain.  He said, “Donald.  Donald Trump.  They don't know what to do.”  It never happened.

Well, one thing they are trying to do is they are trying to convince people to go against Donald Trump.  Because a normal, regular, political person that has no concept of what the hell he's doing would let China continue to take $500 billion a year out of our country and rebuild their country.

I mean, they were building 29 massive bridges like the George Washington Bridge.  They're building things that we don't build anymore.  But we're starting to build them again.

And our economy now is hotter than it's ever been. I don't know you if you saw the confidence levels this morning that just came out.  Fantastic.

And in all fairness to the Fed raising rates, they're raising rates because we've never done like we're doing now.  And one of the things that is nice about the rates — the people that were hurt the worst by these zero interest rates and, you know —

When President Obama had an economy that was — it was the worst comeback since the Great Depression and all that — you've all heard that.  But remember, he was playing with zero-interest money.  He was playing with funny money.  That's easy.  I'm playing with fairly expensive money.

So when he does that, the people that benefit are people that actually — in their whole life, they would save 10, 15, 20 percent of their salary and put it in the bank.  Those people got killed because they put their money in the bank.  They were going to live off the interest, and there was no interest.

Now, those people are starting to get interest.  And those are the people, frankly, that deserve to — you know, they did a great job.  The people that did it right, the people that did the best job got hurt the most.

So in one sense I like it, but basically I'm a low-interest-rate person.  I hate to tell you.

Yes.  Yes, ma'am.  Yes.  Yes, go ahead.

Q    Mr. President, you have another meeting tomorrow with Rod Rosenstein.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

Q    Are you planning to fire Rod Rosenstein?

THE PRESIDENT:  I'm talking to him.  We've had a good talk.  He said he never said it.  He said he doesn't believe it.  He said he has a lot of respect for me, and he was very nice and we'll see.  And he's a member of the Trump administration, in that sense; it's the Justice Department.

I would certainly prefer not doing that.  There was no collusion.  There was no obstruction — I mean, unless you call obstruction the fact that I fight back.  I do fight back.  I really fight back.  I mean, if you call that obstruction, that's fine.

But there's no obstruction.  There's no collusion.  I'm going to meet with him tomorrow.  I may call Rod tonight or tomorrow and ask for a little bit of a delay to the meeting, because I don't want to do anything that gets in the way of this very important Supreme Court pick.  So I don't want it competing and hurting the decision — one way or the other decision.  Again, I want to hear what she has to say.

But I want to do — so I may delay that.  I'm going to see.  I don't want to do anything that's going to conflict with that.  But my preference would be to keep him, and to let him finish up.

You know, I call it a “witch hunt.”  And it is a witch hunt.  If you look at the FBI statements with Strzok and his lover Lisa Page.  If you look at all of the things that have gone on in the FBI.  If you look at McCabe taking $700,000 from a Hillary Clinton-PAC essentially run by Terry McAuliffe, who's her best friend in the world, and he gives them hundreds of thousands of dollars.  And he's in charge of her campaign, and his wife is getting all of this money to run — she lost — to run.  I mean, what's going on?

If you look at the horrible statements, like “Way to go, Page.  Great story you put into a newspaper.”  Essentially, now we'll go and investigate that group.  It's terrible.  We have caught people doing things that are terrible.

I would much prefer keeping Rod Rosenstein.  Much prefer.  Many people say I have the right to absolutely fire him.  He said he did not say it.  He said he does not believe that.  And nobody in this room believes it.

By the way, I deal with the people in this room.  I was with Mike Pompeo before, and we were dealing, at a very high level, with Japan. And I was saying things that nobody in the room even understood.  And I said them a long time ago, and I was right.  He said, “That's not the 25th Amendment that I'm looking at.”  I think I can say that from Mike.

Q    So you don't think anyone in your administration has ever discussed using the 25th Amendment against you?

THE PRESIDENT:  I don't think so.  Well, yeah — enemies, sure.  You use anything you can.

Q    Was it in your administration or your Cabinet?

THE PRESIDENT:  Hey, you use anything they can.  They're not in love with me.  They're not going to beat me in the election; they know that.  They're not going to beat me.  The people that I'm looking at are total lightweights.  I dream of running against those people.

Q    But within your administration?

THE PRESIDENT:  Maybe they'll come up with somebody that's not — they're not going to beat me. I'm against what they want to do.  I'm in favor of law enforcement.  I'm in favor of safety and security, and low taxes.  I want low taxes.

I want borders.  We're getting another $1.6 billion in borders.  I want borders.  We've spent $3.2 [billion] and we're getting another $1.6 [billion].  And then eventually, we're getting the whole thing and we'll complete the wall.

They don't want that.  They don't want that.  They don't want the things that I have.

Now, I must say, I know many of the Democrats.  They'll say things and then wink at me.  And again, it's the same old story.  They'll say things; they don't mean it.  Its politics.  The reason they don't want me is because they want to run the show.  They want it.  It's power.  It's whatever you want to call it.  But what they've done here is a disgrace.  A total disgrace.

And what they do — I know, it's sort of interesting — in one case, they say, “He's a fascist.  He's taking over the government.  He's the most powerful President ever.  He's a horrible human being.  He wants to take over the entire government, and he's going to do it.  We can't stop him.”  That didn't work.

The next week, he said, “Uh, he's incompetent.”  I said, “Well, wait a minute.”  In one case, I'm taking over the world.   And in the other case, “He's incompetent.”  They tried that for a week.  That didn't work.

Look, these are very dishonest people.  These are con artists.  And the press knows it, but the press doesn't write it.

Wow.  That's a lot of hands.  That's a lot of — oh, Steve, go ahead.  He is a very high quality person, this man.  But he'll probably hit me with a bad one.  (Laughter.)

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  Why —

THE PRESIDENT:  Go ahead.  Give it to me.  Give it to me, Steve.  Reuters.

Q    You're getting letters from Chairman Kim.  Why do you need a second summit with the North Korean leader so soon?  And what do you —

THE PRESIDENT:  Because he'd like it.

Q    What would it be for?

THE PRESIDENT:  So I've received two letters from Chairman Kim.  At some point, I'll, you know, give these letters — they're incredible letters.  They're letters that are magnificent in the sense of his feeling for wanting to get this done.  I really believe he wants to get it done.  I may be wrong.

I heard somebody on a certain network last night — I won't mention which one — say, “Why has President Trump given so much to North Korea?”  I said, “Wait a minute.”  I asked Sarah Huckabee, “Please call this person.”  I gave nothing — other than I met.  What did I give them?

I didn't do what Obama did:  Give them $1.8 billion in cash to get back four hostages.  I got back our hostages; I never paid them anything.  I haven't paid them 10 cents.

But he wants to make a deal and I'd like to make a deal.  We actually have a very good relationship together — a lot different than the last time I was at the United Nations.  That was a little bit rough.

Don't forget, that time, they said, “Oh, Trump is saying these horrible things.  He's going to get us into a war.”  You were going to have a war.  If I wasn't elected, you'd be in war.  And President Obama essentially said the same thing. He was ready to go to war.

You would have had a war, and you would have lost millions, not thousands.  You would have lost millions of people.  Seoul has 30 million people — 40 miles and 30 miles from this very dangerous border.  If I wasn't elected, you would have had a war.

President Obama thought you had to go to war.  You know how close he was to pressing the trigger for war?  Millions of people.  With me, nobody is talking about that.  Nobody is talking about that.

We have a very good relationship.  He likes me.  I like him.  We get along.  He wrote me two of the most beautiful letters.  When I showed one of the letters — just one — to Prime Minister Abe, he said, “This is actually a groundbreaking letter.  This is an incredible — this is a historic letter.”  And it is a historic letter.  It's a beautiful — it's a beautiful piece of art.  And I think we're going to make a deal.

Will we make a deal, Steve?  I don't really know.  But I think we're going to.

In the meantime — and I've said it a thousand — I don't want to bore you: no rockets, no missiles, no nuclear tests — you know, for over a year, where you haven't seen.

Before I got here, everybody in this room thought you were going to war.  And then what happened — it was funny — they said, “He was terrible.  He was so rough with Chairman Kim — Kim Jong Un.  He was so rough.  It's terrible.  He's going to cause…”

Well, I had a great meeting with President Putin.  And on that one, they said, “He was too soft with President Putin.”  I had a great meeting with the President.  It lasted for two hours.  We discussed everything: Ukraine, Syria, Israel and Israel's protection.  We had a great meeting.  They wanted me to end up in a boxing match.

And you know what?  If I was killer-tough with President Putin, they would have said, “He was too tough.”  You can't win with these people, but you just keep going.  In the meantime, we're doing well.

Go ahead.

Q    So how do you — how long do you —

THE PRESIDENT:  Wait.  One second.

Q    How long do you think it should take North Korea to denuclearize?

THE PRESIDENT:  I don't know.  I don't want to get into —

Q    We've seen estimates of one year, two year —

THE PRESIDENT:  Steve, I don't want to get into the time game.  You know why?  I told Mike Pompeo, I said, “Mike, don't get into the time game.”  We stopped them.  They're taking down plants.  They're taking down a lot of different testing areas.  They're going to take down some more.  You'll be hearing about that very soon.  I don't want to go ahead of myself, but you'll be hearing about it soon.  They have no interest right now in testing nuclear.

You know, we had a case just about when I was coming into office — you all remember it — where there was a massive — they thought it was an earthquake.  A mountain moved over an inch and a half.  We're talking about mountains.  You know, North Korea is very mountainous.  Beautiful land.  Beautiful.  This mountain actually shifted.  It shifted.  And somebody thought it was an earthquake.  And then they found out, no, this was nuclear testing.  Shifted a mountain.  Now I'm talking about serious stuff.  Serious size.

When I came in, and certainly before I came in — and even at the beginning of mine because when I was having rhetorical contests — you know, contests, really, I guess you could call it — with Chairman Kim, which we both smile at now and we laugh at.  But everybody thought that was a horrible thing.

We've had — many Presidents were unable to do anything, anything at all with North Korea.  We now have a good relationship.  We have a good relationship.  And most importantly, all of the things that you've been hearing about –the horror stories — in my opinion, they're gone.

Now, could they start up again?  Yes.  I'm a deal guy.  Could they start?  Yeah.  Could be that we don't work it out.

I think — I have it right here — I think that what we've done behind the scenes, which nobody really knows about — and I don't blame you for not knowing about, you know, personal letters, private letters.  But saying they want to get it done.  We know much more than the media for a change.  Much more.  But if you saw what's going on behind the scenes, I think you'd very impressed.

We were a country going to war.  I really believe that President Obama would admit that he said it's by far his biggest problem.  When I sat with him, prior to going to office — going into office, he said to me that's by far the biggest problem.  And he said to me that he was very close to going into war.

And millions of people — not — you know, I — they say, “Oh, thousands of people…”  No, no, no, not thousands.  Millions of people would have been killed.  And that could have left — you're right next to China.  You're right — that could have been a world war very easily.

Right now, we're in a great position.  I don't want to play the time game.  I told Mike Pompeo, “Don't let them do that to you.”  I haven't given anything.

And all of a sudden — we got back, it was a few weeks ago.  I think we were back like two and a half months from the summit, which was a great success.  And people are screaming, “What's taking so long?”  I said, “Oh, I get it.”  You got to understand the media.  I've been dealing with the media all my life.  Too much.  Too much.

They're screaming and I saw that.  And our guys were — and not Mike — but our guys were being, “Oh well, we're working as fast…”  I said, “I got all the time in the world.  I don't have to rush it.”  There's no — you know, secession of sanctions.  We got the sanctions on.  I didn't take any sanctions off.

I did see a reporter last night — a guy I like, personally, a lot.  And he asked a question to President Moon of South Korea.  He said, “Why did the President give so much?”  I didn't give anything.  I gave nothing.  What have I given, other than some time?  Yes, I flew to Singapore.  We had a meeting.

Now, giving would be if I took the sanctions off.  I didn't want to do — if you asked General Mattis, for a year and a half, I said, “Why don't we stop these ridiculous,” in my opinion, “the military games?”  I call them the “military games.”  If I told you how much those games cost — and, frankly, I told South Korea, “You should be paying for these games.”  We pay for them.

They say, “Well, we fly the planes in from a short distance away.”  I said, “Where is that?”  “Guam.”  “Oh, huh.  How long a trip is that?”  “Seven hours.”  “Oh, great.”  We're flying these massive bombers and everything.  I've wanted to stop this for a long time.  I consider that an asset.

But we've done — we're saving, by the way — just for the taxpayer, we're saving a fortune.  And if we need them, we can start them up immediately.  If I think we need them, I'll start them before the generals will start them.

The fact is, this reporter said that.  I said, “What have we done?  I haven't given anything.”  And we're really onto the cusp.  I think we're really going to do something that's going to be very important.

But we're not playing the time game.  If it takes two years, three years, or five months, it doesn't matter.  There's no nuclear testing and there's no testing of rockets.

Yes, ma'am.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.  Please.

Q    Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  This is the one that was nodding with every nice thing I said, so watch this question.

Q    It's a habit of mine.  Hannah Thomas-Peter from Sky News.

THE PRESIDENT:  You're with who?

Q    Hannah Thomas-Peter from Sky News.

THE PRESIDENT:  Okay, good.  Sky News.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Congratulations on the purchase.  (Laughter.)

Q    Nothing to do with me.

THE PRESIDENT:  I hope you benefited.  (Laughter.)  Go ahead.

Q    Are you at all concerned at the message that has been sending — being sent to the women who are watching this when you use language like “con job” in relation to allegations of sexual assault?

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, I've used much worse language in my life than “con job.”  That's like probably the nicest phrase I've ever used.  I mean, con job — it is.  It's a con job.  You know, confidence — it's a confidence job.  But they short — it's a con job by the Democrats.  They know it.

Q    What about the message that's being sent to women who are watching?

THE PRESIDENT:  They did the same thing with the Russia investigation.  They tried to convince people that I had something to do with Russia.  There was no collusion.

Think of it.  I'm in Wisconsin.  I'm in Michigan.  I say, “Gee, we're not doing well.”  I won both those states.  “We're not doing well.  Uh, let me call the Russians to help.”  Does anybody really believe that?  It's a con job.

And I watch these guys — Little Adam Schiff, and all of the guys.  He takes a call from a Russian who turned out to be a faker.  You know, he was a comedian or something.  “This is so-and-so calling for…” — he took the call.  Why is the taking a call from a Russian?

Senator Warner took a call from a Russian.  He was a comedian or something, but he said, “We have pictures of President Trump.”  “Oh, where can I get them?”  If we ever did that, it would be like a big deal.

Yeah, it's a con job.  And it's not a bad term.  It's not a bad term at all.

Q    Are you worried —

THE PRESIDENT:  I'll tell you one thing I can say: I've had a lot of people talking about this to me, with respect to what's happening, because it's a horrible precedent.

I'm going to have to get other judges and other Supreme Court judges, possibly.  I could have a lot of the Supreme Court judges, more than two.  And when I called up Brett Kavanaugh — spoke to him and his family — and told them that I chose them, they were so happy and so honored.  It was as though — I mean, the biggest thing that's ever happened.  And I understand that — U.S. Supreme Court.

I don't want to be in a position where people say, “No, thanks.  No, thanks.  I don't want to.”  You know, “I spoke to somebody 38 years ago, and it may not be good.”  We have a country to run.  We want the best talent in the world.

But I'll tell you this:  The people that have complained to me about it the most — about what's happening — are women.  Women are very angry.

You know, I got 52 percent with women.  Everyone said, “This couldn't happen — 52 percent.”  Women are so angry.  And I, frankly, think that — I think they like what the Republicans are doing, but I think they would have liked to have seen it go a lot faster.  But give them their day in court.  Let her have her day in court.  Let somebody else have a day in court.

But the ones that I find — I mean, I have men that don't like it, but I have women that are incensed at what's going on.  I've always said women are smarter than men.  I've said that a lot and I mean it.  But women are incensed at what's going on.

Yes, go ahead.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.  Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Sorry.  It's me?

THE PRESIDENT:  Who are you?  Or where are you from?

Q    It's me?  It's me?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, you.  (Laughter.)  The guy looks — guy looks like he's shocked.  That's not — this is going to be not good.

Q    It's going to be good, sir.

THE PRESIDENT:  The guy looks totally like stunned that I — have you ever been picked before for a question?  (Laughter.)

Q    Yes, sir, but not from President of the United States.

THE PRESIDENT:  Go ahead.  Go ahead.  Give me a question.

Q    Thank you very much.  My name is Majeed Gly from Rudaw Media Network.  I want to, sir, ask you — you always talk about —

THE PRESIDENT:  Excuse me, you said where?  From where?

Q    Rudaw Media Network from Kurdistan region, north of Iraq.

THE PRESIDENT:  Okay.

Q    I'm a Kurd.  Sir —

THE PRESIDENT:  Good.  Good.  Great people.

Q    Thank you, sir.

THE PRESIDENT:  Great people.

Q    (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you.

Q    Mr. President.  Mr. President, I want to —

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Are you a Kurd?

Q    (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Good.

Q    Mr. President —

THE PRESIDENT:  They're great people.  They're great fighters.  I like them a lot.  Let's go.  I like this question so far.

Q    Mr. President, you always say you support your allies.  Kurds right now, after the defeat of ISIS, are under a lot of pressure in Syria and in Iraq by many adversaries.

THE PRESIDENT:  It's true.

Q    What will you do to elevate their position to support them in order — after they help the United States to defeat ISIS?  Thank you very much.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, we are helping them a lot and we've been very friendly with them.  And, as you know, we've fought side-by-side.  And we have defeated ISIS, essentially, a very short while ago, in the Middle East.  And we did it with a lot of help from the Kurds.  And they are — they're great fighters.

You know, some people are great fighters and some people aren't.  The Kurds are great fighters.  And they're great, great people.  And we're going to be working — we're discussing that situation exactly right now.

Q    What will you do to support them, sir, (inaudible) Syria?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I'm just telling you, we're going to be discussing that situation.  We have already started discussing that situation.  But we have tremendous support from the Kurds in defeating ISIS.  Okay?

Q    And about Syria:  Sir, in your speech you did not mention —

THE PRESIDENT:  Uh, yes.  Go.  Uh oh.

Q    Here we go.  (Laughs.)

THE PRESIDENT:  You don't need it.

Q    Mr. President, Susan Li from Fox Business.  Did you reject a one-on-one meeting with the Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, I did.

Q    Why?

THE PRESIDENT:  Because his tariffs are too high, and he doesn't seem to want to move, and I've told him, “Forget about it.”  And frankly, we're thinking about just taxing cars coming in from Canada.  That's the motherlode.  That's the big one.  We're very unhappy with the negotiations and the negotiating style of Canada.

We don't like their representative very much.  They've taken advantage — I love Canada, by the way.  I have so many friends.  I have everybody, and so many friends.  But that has nothing to do with this; I'm representing the United States.

Mexico was totally — I mean, they were great.  By the way, the new President has been great.  The deal is done.  Now, it has to go through Congress and, you know, a lot things have to happen.  But we've done — Bob Lighthizer, who's here someplace.  Where's Bob?  Bob.  Bob Lighthizer has done a great job of negotiating, as they have.  But the deal is done.  It's up to Congress.

Q    And, Mr. President —

THE PRESIDENT:  But Canada has treated us very badly.  They've treated our farmers in Wisconsin, and New York state, and a lot of other states very badly.

Dairy products — 300 percent.  Three hundred percent.  How do you sell a dairy product at 300 percent?  The answer is:  You don't.  What it is, is a barrier.  It's — basically, they're saying, “We don't have any barriers.  By the way, it's 300 percent.”  So you don't send it in, because you can't compete.

So Canada has a long way to go.  I must be honest with you, we're not getting along at all with their negotiators.  We think their negotiators have taken advantage of our country for a long time.  We had people that didn't know what they were doing.  And that's why we had — over the last five or six years, if you average it out, we had $800 billion a year in trade losses.  It's ridiculous.  It's not going to happen.

Q    What about NAFTA?  Sir, Mr. President, NAFTA —

THE PRESIDENT:  Go ahead.

Q    What does that mean for NAFTA?  Will you be pulling out of NAFTA?

THE PRESIDENT:  I don't like NAFTA.  I never liked it.  It's been very bad for the United States.  It's been great for Canada.  It's been great for Mexico.  Very bad for us.

Q    But will you pull out of the —

THE PRESIDENT:  I'm not going to use the name “NAFTA.”  I refuse to use it.  I've seen thousands of plants and factories close.  I've seen millions of jobs lost to auto companies that moved.  I mean, Mexico has 25 percent of our auto business now because of NAFTA.

Under our deal, it's not going to happen anymore.  I hate to tell you, it's not.  We're going to keep companies.  And I told the Mexicans, I said, “We have to keep companies.”  But they're getting a lot, also.  They're getting other things.  They're getting a lot of good things.  Mexico made a very good deal.

But with Canada, it's very tough.  What we're doing is if we made a deal with Canada — which is, you know, a good chance still.  But I'm not making anything near what they want to do.  We're going to be fair.

Q    But you're — are you going to notify Congress of pulling out of NAFTA?

THE PRESIDENT:  What we're probably going to do is call it the “USMC.”  Like the United States Marine Corps, which I love.  General Kelly likes it even more.  Where's General Kelly?  He likes that.  “USMC” — which would be U.S., Mexico, Canada.  But it'll probably or possibly be just “USM.”  It'll be United States and Mexico.

Q    Yes or no, are you going to —

THE PRESIDENT:  Canada will come along.  Now, if Canada doesn't make a deal with us, we're going to make a much better deal.  We're going to tax the cars that come in.  We will put billions and billions of dollars into our Treasury.  And frankly, we'll be very happy because it's actually more money than you can make, under any circumstance, with making a deal.  Okay?

Good job, too.  You do a very good job.  Really good.  Yes, please.  Mr. Kurd.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  (Laughter.)  (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you very much for your time, Mr. President.  Two, quickly, questions:  What will be the U.S.A. relations with the Kurds —

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, I thought I just answered that.

Q    — post-ISIS.  Post-ISIS.

THE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  We're trying to get along very well.  We do get along great with the Kurds.  We're trying to help them a lot.  Don't forget, that's their territory.

Q    (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  We have to help them.  I want to help them.

Go ahead, what's next?

Q    Then, what —

THE PRESIDENT:  They fought with us.  They fought with us.  They died with us.  They died.  We lost — tens of thousands of Kurds died fighting ISIS.  They died for us and with us.  And for themselves.  They died for themselves.  But they're great people.  And we have not forget — we don't forget — I don't forget.  What happens someday later — but I can tell you that I don't forget.  These are great people.

Okay.  Yes, ma'am.  Please.  Please —

Q    About Iran, Mr. President.  About Iran, one question: What is your clear plan to stop Iranian influence in Iraq, in Syria, and especially in Iraqi Kurdistan?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I think you've seen that.  I must tell you, it's — I don't mind your question because —

Q    Raheem Rashidi, from Kurdistan TV.  Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  I think there's been no greater change — other than maybe China, because China — unfortunately, their markets have dropped — would you say, 30 percent in the last four months, right?  I think I watched you recently when you said that.  I said, “I think she's wrong.  I think it's actually 32.  But that's okay.”  But a lot.

There's been no — other than maybe that, but even that.  Because China is a very special place.  And Iran is a very special place.  But I think there's been no country that's changed so much as Iran.

In the last six months, since I took off the horrible, horrible Iran nuclear deal, as they called it — one of the dumbest deals ever made.  As an example, why didn't they take care of Yemen in the deal?  Why didn't they take care of Syria in the deal?  You know what Kerry said — the reason?  “It was too complicated.”

We're giving $150 billion, we paid $1.8 billion in cash — cash.  This whole room would be filled up with hundred-dollar bills.  And you'd need probably five rooms like this.  But you have $1.8 billion in cash.  Why didn't we take care of Yemen?  Why didn't we take care of Syria and other?  And he said, “Because it was too complicated.”  Well, you just gave all your cards.  You gave them $150 billion.  And now Yemen's a mess, but it's getting better.

And Syria's a mess.  And I was responsible — and I hope it stays that way — when I put out on social media, a few weeks ago, about Idlib Province.  I said, “Don't do it.”  And I'll tell you, it happened — where I was at a meeting with a lot of supporters, and a woman stood up and she said, “There's a province in Syria with 3 million people.  Right now, the Iranians, the Russians, and the Syrians are surrounding their province.  And they're going to kill my sister.  And they're going to kill millions of people in order to get rid of 25,000 or 35,000 terrorists or enemies of theirs.”  But I think we can call them terrorists.

And I said, “That's not going to happen.”  I didn't hear of Idlib Province.  And I came back to New York, and I picked up the failing New York Times — I hate to admit it was the New York Times, but it was the failing New York Times.  And I opened it up — not on the front page, but there was a very big story.  I said, “Wow, that's the same story that the woman told me that I found hard to believe.”  Because why would — how would anyone do that with 3 million people?  And it said that they were being surrounded, and they were going in and starting — literally, the next day, they were going to drop bombs all over the place and perhaps kill millions of people in order to get 35,000 terrorists.

And I put out on social media and elsewhere — I gave Mike Pompeo, John Bolton, everybody these orders: “Don't let it happen.”  I said, “Don't let it happen.”  That doesn't mean they can't be selective.  They can't be — you know, go in and they've got to do what they've got to do with terrorists.  I assume they're terrorists.  But don't kill millions of people.

And it stopped.  You saw that.  Nobody's going to give me credit, but that's okay.  That's okay.  Because the people the people know.

I have had more Syrians thank me for that.  This was about four weeks ago, I put that out.  I said, “They're surrounding a city of 3 million people.  They're going to start bombing the city.  Don't let it happen.”  And I meant it, too.  I meant it.  And millions of people have been saved.

And I gave, today, great credit to Iran.  I don't know if you heard that.  I gave great credit to Iran, to Russia, and to Syria for not doing it.

Now I hope it's going to be surgical — meaning go in and do — it's lengthy and everything else.  And they possibly have to do it.  But I think millions of people would have been killed.  And that would have been a shame.

And hopefully — and I have to tell you, Turkey has been a big help.  Turkey has been great.  Turkey has helped us very much with that whole situation.

Q    Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  Yes.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Good.  Thank you very much.

Q    Touching back on Iran: Of course, this week, you put out a call to action to other countries to rally with America, to put pressure on Iran.  Rouhani is still calling for the U.S. to come back into the old deal.  But after meeting with world leaders this week, did you make any progress towards a potential new deal?

THE PRESIDENT:  Doesn't matter what world leaders think on Iran.  Iran's going to come back to me and they're going to make a good deal, I think.  Maybe not.  Deals — you never know.

But they're suffering greatly.  They're having riots in every city, far greater than they were during the green period with President Obama.  Far greater.  When President Obama stuck up for government, not the people.  You probably would have had a much different Iran had he not done that.  But I'm sticking up for the people.  I am with the people of Iran.

But here's the thing:  They have rampant inflation.  Their money is worthless.  Everything is going wrong.  They have riots in the street.  You can't buy bread.  You can't do anything.  It's a disaster.  At some point, I think they're going to want to come back, and they're going to say, “Hey, can we do something?”

And I'm very simple; I just don't want them to have nuclear weapons.  That's all.  Is that too much to ask?  I don't want them to have nuclear weapons.

I want them to have a great economy.  I want them to sell so much oil so that the oil prices — I'm not happy with OPEC.  I told them, “I'm not happy with OPEC.”  We take care of all these people, we defend them.  They wouldn't be there for two weeks if it wasn't for me, and the United States, and a much stronger armed forces than it was.  Because our armed forces was depleted.  We had old equipment.

Now, we have — hey, you know better than anybody — $700 billion and $716 billion.  We have the most incredible new jets and everything.  We need it.  Not that I want to spend it, although it is jobs.  It's all made in the United States.

But Iran has to come back, and they have to talk.  And I'm not doing this from strength or weakness.  I'm just saying, at some point, I think they're going to have to come back.

If you look at what's going on, companies are leaving left and right.  Mercedes Benz just left.  They're all leaving.  They don't want to be in Iran.  Because they have a choice: Do they want to be with Iran, or do they want to be with us?

And we have, by — we picked up $10 trillion since my election.  We were being caught by China.  Now it's going the other way.  People can't believe it.  People have never seen this situation with China.  Everything's always been — for 20 years, “Oh, China is so great.  China is so great.”  You don't hear that so much anymore.  I love China; I think they're great.  But you don't hear that so much anymore.  You know who's great now?  We're great now.

Okay, how about just a couple more.  Now, I could be doing — I could be doing this all day long.  I could be doing this all day long.  Should we continue for a little while?  It doesn't matter to me.  A couple of more.  I don't care.

New York Times, come on.  New York Times.  The failing New York Times.  Stand up.  Go ahead.

Q    You're talking about me, but (inaudible).

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I'm talking about the Times is failing.  You are far from failing.  Go ahead.

Q    Okay, but you're not — you were pointing to me, so you meant me.  But I —

THE PRESIDENT:  The Times are very interesting, though.  The Times, I think they're going to endorse me.  (Laughter.)  I think that ABC — I think — well, Fox — I like Fox.  I really do.

Q    Just to be sure —

THE PRESIDENT:  But I think ABC, CBS, NBC, the Times, the — they're all going to endorse me, because if they don't, they're going out of business.  Can you imagine if you didn't have me?

Go ahead, what would you like to say?

Q    Just to be sure, I know you were pointing to me, but I work for PBS NewsHour.

THE PRESIDENT:  I know that.  No, I know that.

Q    (Laughs.)  Okay.  So, I want to ask you: Yesterday, you were talking about your administration's accomplishments at the United Nations, and a lot of the leaders laughed.  Why do you think they were laughing?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, that's fake news.

Q    And what was that experience like for you?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  It was fake news.  And it was covered that way.  Okay.  So, I said that, since my election, our economy has become the hottest in the world.  Tax reductions, regulations, confidence levels are the highest in 18 years — really, soon to be historic.  Unemployment is the lowest in the history of our country.  You look at Black unemployment.  You look at Asian unemployment.  You look at women — 65 years.  The unemployment numbers are among the best we've ever had ever.  The numbers of new companies pouring into our country, which nobody thought was possible.

And I said this.  And I was in front of a large group of highly professional people, most of whom are from either other countries or the United Nations — people that aren't big into clapping, applauding, smiling.  And I heard a little rustle, as I said our country is now stronger than ever before.  It's true.  I mean, it is true.  And I heard a little rustle.  And I said, “It's true.”  And I heard smiles.  And I said, “Oh, I didn't know there there'd be that kind…”  They weren't laughing at me.  They were laughing with me.  We had fun.  That was not laughing at me.

So the fake news said, “People laughed at President Trump.”  They didn't laugh at me.  People had a good time with me.  We were doing it together.  We had a good time.  They respect what I've done.

The United States is respected again.  The United States was not respected.  Everybody was taking advantage of us.  From jobs, and taking our companies, and not paying the price — to so many other things, even military protection.

I told a number of countries over the last few days, I said, “Listen, you're a very rich country.  We protect you.  Without our protection, you would have real problems.  You would have real problems.”

Q    And I — I want to —

THE PRESIDENT:  I said, “You should reimburse us for this protection.  Why are we protecting you?”  And do you want to know what they said after about two minutes of talking?  They agreed with me.  And you can ask this group of very talented people — they agreed with me.

But they said — one of them said, “But Mr. President, nobody ever asked us for that.  They never asked us for that.”  Nobody has ever said, “You should pay.”  These are really wealthy countries.

I mean, I'll be honest, I just asked Japan.  I said, “We're defending you.  You're a very wealthy country.  You're sending us millions of cars.  You're making a fortune.  We have a tremendous trade deficit with you.  And we're defending you, and we're subsidizing your military with a massive amount of money.”

I said it to South Korea.  We have 32,000 soldiers in South Korea.  They're a very wealthy — these are great countries.  These are very wealthy countries.  I said, “Why aren't you reimbursing us for our costs?”

And you know what?  They look at me, and they can't even answer it, because there's no answer.  If they're a poor country and they needed protection, and people were going to die, I'm all for protecting them; I don't want 10 cents.  But when wealthy countries that have massive trade surpluses with us — massive — and then on top of that, we're paying for their military?  Or we're paying for a lot of their military?  That doesn't work.

How about two more, and we'll call it?

Q    Mr. President, really quickly.  Mr. President, you said you feel a kinship — you said you feel a kinship with Brett Kavanaugh and you — Mr. President, really quickly, you said you felt a kinship with Brett Kavanaugh.  You said that you also — your false allegations that you feel like were made against you make you feel like you don't want to believe these women.  What message do you think that —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I didn't say that.  Why do you say that?

Q    So, please explain —

THE PRESIDENT:  Fake news.

Q    Please explain —

THE PRESIDENT:  Why — did I say that?

Q    Well, can you please explain then what you're talking about in your own false allegations?

THE PRESIDENT:  Excuse me.  And by the way, I think you do a very good job, but I didn't say that.  I do watch you.  And I think you do a very good job.  But I didn't say that.

Q    So could you explain what you meant?

THE PRESIDENT:  I said, exactly, “I look forward to watching her.”  I do want to hear what she says.  And maybe she'll say — I could be convinced of anything.  Maybe, if she'll say something — but in the meantime, I have to tell you, he's one of the highest quality human beings.

He's a tremendous man.  He's a tremendous genius.  He's a great intellect.  He was, I believe, number one at Yale.  Is that a correct statement?  Number one in his class at Yale.

Q    So you don't feel a kinship with him?

THE PRESIDENT:  He was a great student in law.  He was — you know, I've heard his name.  I didn't know him.  Didn't know him.  Until this whole thing, I didn't know him.  But I heard his name for 10 years.

And you know how I heard his name?  Everybody was saying he should be on the Supreme Court.  I said, “Who is he?”  “His name is Brett Kavanaugh.  And he should be — he's the most brilliant person.  He's the most brilliant lawyer.”  They were talking about him on the Supreme Court 10 years ago.  With all of that, I want to hear what she has to say.  Okay?

Q    But you said that you don't feel — but you said that you feel like there have been numerous false allegations against you, and that because of that–

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, I've had many false —

Q    — you feel that you understand what he might be going through.

THE PRESIDENT:  I've had many false statements against me.  And if the press would have reported it, I would have been very happy.  I think John Roberts would tell you that — you covered the story where the women were paid to say bad things about me.  Sean Hannity covered it.

I will tell you, when I saw that on Sean Hannity, I actually called him.  Believe it or not, I don't speak to him very much, but I respect him.  I called him.  I said, “This is the biggest story.  This is a big, big story.”  He agreed with me.  The next day, I picked up the papers.  There wasn't one word about it.  The next day, I watched ABC news.  John, I watched NBC.  I watched CBS.  I didn't watch CNN, but, next time, I'm going to.  (Laughter.)

Q    And are you okay with —

THE PRESIDENT:  I watched everything.  There wasn't one story other than Fox.  And it's a big story.  It's a shame.  Okay.  Enough.  Thank you, though.

Q    And is it okay if I give it to the New York Times?

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you.

Q    Is it okay if I give it to the New York Times, Mr. President?

THE PRESIDENT:  Go ahead.  That's enough, please.

Q    I'm just going to — okay.

THE PRESIDENT:  Good job.  Good job.

Q    Mr. President, could I ask a question, since I am from the New York Times —

Q    Mr. President —

Q    — before this gentleman?

THE PRESIDENT:  Since you're where?  Since you're where?

Q    I'm actually from the New York Times.  Yamiche is my former colleague, and we miss her.  But I was hoping I could ask a question.

THE PRESIDENT:  I don't blame you.  But I'll let you do it after he does it.  Is that okay?

Q    That's perfectly well.

THE PRESIDENT:  I will do that in honor of a paper I once loved.  (Laughter.)

Q    Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  Go ahead.

Q    Mr. President, my name is Edward Szall, with TruNews.  Today, you met with Bibi Netanyahu, from Israel.  And you brought up, actually, that you support a two-state solution for the Palestinian-Israeli crisis there.

THE PRESIDENT:  I do.

Q    Can you give us any more preview of what this great deal, the peace deal (inaudible) —

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I'd love to be able to make a deal with the Israelis and the Palestinians.  You know, my whole life, I was told that's the toughest deal.  And I disagree.  I think healthcare is probably tougher, okay?  You want to know the truth.  But it is tough.  But we're going to take care of that, too.  And that's going to get taken care of.  We've already taken care of a lot of it.

But the whole — my life, I've always heard the deal between, as you know, Israel and the Palestinians, that's like the toughest deal.  Every possible thing is tough about that.  I think we're going to make a deal.  I think we're going to make a deal.

So, at one of our many meetings today, I was with Bibi Netanyahu, a man who I have a lot of respect for.  A man who has been extremely nice to me — very happy that I did the whole thing with Jerusalem and the embassy, which, by the way, we're going to open in four months for less than $500,000.  And the budget was over $1 billion, right?

Q    Yes.  That's correct.

THE PRESIDENT:  So we saved, let's say, a billion dollars.  That's not so bad.  And it's open.  And it's beautiful, by the way.  Jerusalem stone, one of my favorite stones.

I will tell you, the question — somebody said today, “Well, this is the first news conference in a long time.”  I said, “What do you mean?  I did like, five today.”  Every time I sit, I take a lot of questions from people that are screaming like maniacs in the back of the room — meaning, reporters.

And one of the reporters — I won't say that it was John Roberts that said that, I refuse.  But one of the — it was, but that's okay.  Don't feel guilty, John.  But of the reporters that was screaming asked about the one-state, two-state.  And I said, “I think the two-state will happen.  I think it's, in one way, more difficult because it's a real estate deal — because you need metes and bounds, and you need lots of carveouts and lots of everything.  It's actually a little tougher deal.  But in another way, it works better because you have people governing themselves.

So, they asked be about that.  I said, “Well, I think the two-state will happen.  I think we're going to go down the two-state road.”  And I'm glad I got it out.  And Jared, who is so involved — he loves Israel.  He loves Israel.  But he's also going to be very fair with the Palestinians.  He understands it takes two people to be happy — two groups of people to be happy.  Everybody has got to be happy.  And that's why it's so tough, because there's been so much hatred and anger for so many years.  That's what, probably, the number-one ingredient of toughness is.  But they asked me — I said I think it's going to be a two-state.

And you know what I did today?  By saying that, I put it out there.  And if you ask most of the people in Israel, they agree with that.  But nobody wanted to say it.  It's a big thing to put it out.  It's a very big thing to put it out.

Now, the bottom line: If the Israelis and the Palestinians want one state, that's okay with me.  If they want two states, that's okay with me.  I'm happy if they're happy.  I'm a facilitator.  I want to see if I can get a deal done so that people don't get killed anymore.

When we had — in Saudi Arabia, we had one of the great conferences in history.  Many of you were there; probably all of you were there.  It was one of the most beautiful two days.  That, and China — two of the most incredible events I've ever seen.  I've never seen anything like it.

And we had, I believe, 58 Muslim countries — the leaders.  The kings, the emirs, the absolute leaders from every — there was nobody in second place.  They were the leaders of the whole thing.

And unbeknownst to anybody else, people would come up to me, individually — it wasn't a setup.  They'd come up to me and say, “Sir, you can't have peace in the Middle East without peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians.”  I said, “Why?  What difference?  Why does that matter so much?”  They said, “It just is impossible to make peace in the Middle East unless you have between the Israelis…”

So, I heard that from one — the King of Saudi Arabia, who is a great guy — King Salman.  And then, somebody else came up.  And he wasn't told, “Oh, go up and say it.”  I know where they're coming from.  And I must have had 12 leaders say it.  And they just said it.

And I started to realize that peace between Israel and the Palestinians, for the Middle East, is a very important thing.  And we're trying very hard to get it.  I think, probably, two-state is more likely.  But you know what?  If they do a single, if they do a double, I'm okay with it if they're both happy.  If they're both happy, I'm okay with either.  I think the two-state is more likely.

Okay, how about one — go ahead.

Q    New York Times?  New York Times?

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, okay.

Q    Thank you, sir.

THE PRESIDENT:  I would have gotten bad story in the New York Times.  But I will anyways, so I guess it doesn't matter.

Q    We're — we're kind of, uh —

THE PRESIDENT:  Okay, we'll do you after that.

Q    We're kind of, uh —

THE PRESIDENT:  And then we'll call it quits.

Q    We're kind of thriving, not failing these days.

THE PRESIDENT:  You're doing very well.

Q    Yeah.

THE PRESIDENT:  Say, “Thank you, Mr. Trump.”  (Laughter.)

Q    (Laughs).  I think I'll stop short of that.  (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT:  I wonder how you do — you know, all my life, I've had very few stories — but I've had some on the front page of the New York Times.  Now, I think I think I average about three or four a day, right?

Q    That is —

THE PRESIDENT:  And, of the three or four, they're all negative.  No matter what I do, they're negative.  But you know what?  That's okay.  I still love the paper.

Go ahead.  (Laughter.)

Q    I wanted to come back to China, because I think what you announced today was really important.

THE PRESIDENT:  I agree.

Q    You talk about this friendship you have with Xi Jinping, and yet, essentially, what you did today is accused his government —

THE PRESIDENT:  That's right.

Q    — of interfering in our internal affairs —

THE PRESIDENT:  That's right.

Q    — subverting our Democratic process, and doing it to hurt you, the Republican Party —

THE PRESIDENT:  Doing it to help them.

Q    — and your backers.

THE PRESIDENT:  You know what?  Yeah.  Doing it to help them.

Q    So how can a guy who does that be your friend?

THE PRESIDENT:  I think that we are able to — and maybe he's not anymore.  I'll be honest with you, I think we had a very good friendship.  I think we had a very good relationship; we understand each other.  They are doing studies on Donald Trump.  They're trying to figure it all out because this has never happened to them before.  It's never happened.

Think of it, you've never seen — you've covered very well — you've never seen this happen.  They're having big problems.  I don't want them to have problems, but they got to make a fair deal.  Just like Canada has got to make a fair deal.

I believe that he and I have a very good chemistry together.  And I can tell you that about many leaders.  I can also tell you a few where I don't feel I'll ever have a chemistry with them.  I don't want to have a chemistry with them.  And for those people, I'll have Pompeo, Nikki, Bolton, Jared.  I can go — our general; I'll have our general.  Or if they can't do it, I'll have Sarah Huckabee do it.  Right?

But for the most part, I have very good — very good with Prime Minister Abe.  Very good with President Moon.

By the way, what President Moon said last night — I know you won't report it — but Bret Baier interviewed him last night and he asked him about me.  I can't say — because you would say I'm too braggadocios — but what he said about me last night was an unbelievable thing.  “Couldn't have happened without President Trump, and it never would happen without President Trump.  And nobody else could do it.”  You know, I mean, you'll take a look.

But I will tell you, China is very special.  Very special.  They're incredible people.  It's an incredible country.  What they've done is unbelievable.

Q    How would —

THE PRESIDENT:  And it all started with the WTO.  It was a defective deal.  And it all started — without the WTO, China is not China as we know it today.

And then it started also by — our people that are standing right in this position, that are in the Oval Office — another way of saying it — allowed them to get away with murder.  Allowed a lot of countries to get away with murder.

I think we still probably have a very good relationship.  But you know what?  In honor of you, I will, tomorrow, make a call to him.  Say, “Hey, how you doing?”  Okay?

Q    Can I — can I just ask —

THE PRESIDENT:  “You don't mind paying billions of dollars a month in tariffs.”

Q    I just had two small follow-ups.  One is, how would you compare the level of interference you see today from the Chinese to what Russia did in 2016?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I think it's different.  If you look at the Des Moines Register, I mean, they have ads that are made to look like editorials.  Saying about, “Oh, you got to stop Trump.  You got to stop him.  You got to vote against him.”  My farmers are so incredible.  These are patriots.

You know, on a network that doesn't like me very much — which is most of them — but a network that didn't — doesn't really treat me very good, they interviewed farmers.  And they got hurt because, you know, all of a sudden China stops buying.

By the way, they've started buying again.  I don't know if you've noticed.  And soybeans are going up, and things are going up.  And we've had very little hurt from what I've done.  In fact, the markets have gone up.  And the farmers are going to do great.

But, ultimately — but they had farmers, and these guys are amazing; I love them.  And they voted for me and they love me.  And they said, “We don't care if we get hurt.  He's doing the right thing.”  And, you know, a lot of people — it's a complex game.  A lot of people don't know exactly what it is.  They don't know how to define “tariff.”  They don't know it is really different than a tax, although it's getting close.

But they know that for the first time in many, many years, they have a President that's fighting for them; that's not letting their jobs be taken to other countries; that's not allowing the kind of abuse that we — I mean, when you look at what happened, as an example, with NAFTA.  And for years — because it was never changed — NAFTA was defective deal the day it was signed.

You know why?  Because they had a VAT tax of 17 percent and nobody from this country knew that.  And by the time they found out, which was about a week later, nobody went and changed it.  So you went many years and they never changed it.  There was a VAT tax that Mexico got.  So we were 17 or 16 points behind, before we even started.  NAFTA was a horrible thing.

So the farmers and — by the way, the steel workers — you know, I stopped the dumping.  The dumping was horrible.  And now if they want to dump, that's okay, but they've got to pay the United States of America 25 percent on everything they dump.  That's okay.  But as I told you before, steel is doing phenomenally well.

But the farmers say, “This man is fighting for us.  No President has ever fought for us before.”  And you really have to study what's happened over the 15 years with the farm.  The farmers have been decimated over a 15-year period.  They've been decimated.  The farmers are going to come out great.  These are great people.  They're great, great patriots.

I think we should finish with that one.  Is that okay?

(Cross-talk.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  Go ahead.  Let's go.  Fast.

Q    Sure.

THE PRESIDENT:  I always like — always like to finish with a good one.

Elton John said, “When you hit that last tune and it's good, don't go back.”  (Laughter.)  I've seen — have you ever seen?  They do great.  They're great.  They hit the last tune and everyone goes crazy.  Then they go back for an encore, right?  And they don't hit it.  And they leave — everyone leaves.  They said, “That wasn't a very good concert, was it?”

Let's go.

Q    Well, I'll ask you one final question —

THE PRESIDENT:  You — don't make me wrong.  Go ahead.

Q    — ahead of tomorrow's hearing.  Because you were asked earlier in the news conference about Brett —

THE PRESIDENT:  Say it again.  Say it again.

Q    About the hearing tomorrow.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

Q    You were asked earlier in the news conference by my friend from Sky News about the message that you are sending to —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

Q    — the women of the country.

THE PRESIDENT:  Right.

Q    What about the message that you may be sending to young men?  You're a father.  What does this moment that we're in — the cultural moment —

THE PRESIDENT:  It's a very big cultural moment.

Q    Right.  So what messages do you for young men of America?

THE PRESIDENT:  It's a very big — it's also — you're right.  I think it's a great question.

This is a very big moment for our country because you have a man who is very outstanding, but he's got very strong charges against him — probably charges that nobody is going to be able be — to prove.

So I could have you chosen for a position.  I could have you, or you, or you — anybody.  And somebody could say things.  And it's happened to me many times, where false statements are made.  And honestly, nobody knows who to believe.

I could pick another Supreme Court judge — Justice.  I could pick another one.  Another one.  Another one.  This could go on forever.  Somebody could come and say, “Thirty years ago, twenty-five years ago, ten years ago, five years ago, he did a horrible thing to me.  He did this.  He did that.  He did that.”

And honestly, it's a very dangerous period in our country.  And it's being perpetrated by some very evil people.  Some of them are Democrats, I must say.  Because some of them know that this is just a game that they're playing.  It's a con game.  It's at the highest level.  We're talking about the United States Supreme Court.

This can go on forever.  I can pick five other people.  At a certain point, the people are going to say, “No, thank you.”  This is the most coveted job, probably, in the world.

And you know what?  I would honestly say — because I interviewed great people for this job.  He's great, but I interviewed other great people for this job.  I could conceivably imagine going to one of them and saying, “It's too bad what happened to this wonderful man, but I'm going to choose you, number two.  I want you to go.”  And I could conceivably be turned down by somebody that desperately wanted this job two months ago.

Q    With respect, sir —

THE PRESIDENT:  So this is — this is — and this is beyond Supreme Court.

Q    Right.

THE PRESIDENT:  There's nothing beyond Supreme Court; this is beyond Supreme Court.  This has everything to do with our country.

When you are guilty until proven innocent, it's just not supposed to be that way.  Always I heard, “You're innocent until proven guilty.”  I've heard this for so long, and it's such a beautiful phrase.  In this case, you're guilty until proven innocent.  I think that is a very, very dangerous standard for our country.

With that being said, I look forward to what she has to say.  I also look very forward to what Judge Kavanaugh has to say.  I think it's going to be a very, very important day in the history of our country.

Q    And —

THE PRESIDENT:  I want to thank you all.  We'll do it again.

Q    Sir, the message to young men?  Sir?

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Thank you very much.

Well, I want to thank everybody. Very, very special people. And it is true, this is my first stop, officially. We're not talking about the balls, or we're not talking about even the speeches -- although they did treat me nicely on that speech yesterday. (Laughter.) I always call them the dishonest media, but they treated me nicely. (Laughter.)

But I want to say that there is nobody that feels stronger about the intelligence community and the CIA than Donald Trump. There's nobody. (Applause.)

The wall behind me is very, very special. We've been touring for quite a while, and I'll tell you what -- 29? I can't believe it.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Twenty-eight.

PRESIDENT TRUMP: Oh, 28. We got to reduce it. That's amazing. And we really appreciate what you've done in terms of showing us something very special. And your whole group, these are really special, amazing people. Very, very few people could do the job you people do. And I want to just let you know, I am so behind you. And I know maybe sometimes you haven't gotten the backing that you've wanted, and you're going to get so much backing. Maybe you're going to say, please don't give us so much backing. (Laughter.) Mr. President, please, we don't need that much backing. (Laughter.) But you're going to have that. And I think everybody in this room knows it.

You know, the military and the law enforcement, generally speaking, but all of it -- but the military gave us tremendous percentages of votes. We were unbelievably successful in the election with getting the vote of the military. And probably almost everybody in this room voted for me, but I will not ask you to raise your hands if you did. (Laughter.) But I would guarantee a big portion, because we're all on the same wavelength, folks. (Applause.) We're all on the same wavelength, right? He knows. It took Brian about 30 seconds to figure that one out, right, because we know we're on the same wavelength.

But we're going to do great things. We're going to do great things. We've been fighting these wars for longer than any wars we've ever fought. We have not used the real abilities that we have. We've been restrained. We have to get rid of ISIS. Have to get rid of ISIS. We have no choice. (Applause.) Radical Islamic terrorism. And I said it yesterday -- it has to be eradicated just off the face of the Earth. This is evil. This is evil. And you know, I can understand the other side. We can all understand the other side. There can be wars between countries, there can be wars. You can understand what happened. This is something nobody can even understand. This is a level of evil that we haven't seen. And you're going to go to it, and you're going to do a phenomenal job. But we're going to end it. It's time. It's time right now to end it.

You have somebody coming on who is extraordinary. For the different positions of "Secretary of This" and "Secretary of That" and all of these great positions, I'd see five, six, seven, eight people. And we had a great transition. We had an amazing team of talent. And, by the way, General Flynn is right over here. Put up your hand. What a good guy. (Applause.) And Reince and my whole group. Reince -- you know -- they don't care about Reince. He's like this political guy that turned out to be a superstar, right? We don't have to talk about Reince.

But we did -- we had such a tremendous, tremendous success. So when I'm interviewing all of these candidates that Reince and his whole group is putting in front, it went very, very quickly, and, in this case, went so quickly -- because I would see six or seven or eight for Secretary of Agriculture, who we just named the other day, Sonny Perdue, former governor of Georgia. Fantastic guy. But I'd see six, seven, eight people for a certain position. Everybody wanted it.

But I met Mike Pompeo, and it was the only guy I met. I didn't want to meet anybody else. I said, cancel everybody else. Cancel. Now, he was approved, essentially, but they're doing little political games with me. He was one of the three. Now, last night, as you know, General Mattis, fantastic guy, and General Kelly got approved. (Applause.) And Mike Pompeo was supposed to be in that group. It was going to be the three of them. Can you imagine all of these guys? People respect -- you know, they respect that military sense. All my political people, they're not doing so well. The political people aren't doing so well but you. We're going to get them all through, but some will take a little bit longer than others.

But Mike was literally -- I had a group of -- what, we had nine different people? Now, I must say, I didn't mind cancelling eight appointments. That wasn't the worst thing in the world. But I met him and I said, he is so good. Number one in his class at West Point.

Now, I know a lot about West Point. I'm a person that very strongly believes in academics. In fact, every time I say I had an uncle who was a great professor at MIT for 35 years who did a fantastic job in so many different ways, academically -- was an academic genius -- and then they say, is Donald Trump an intellectual? Trust me, I'm like a smart persona. (Laughter.) And I recognized immediately. So he was number one at West Point, and he was also essentially number one at Harvard Law School. And then he decided to go into the military. And he ran for Congress. And everything he's done has been a homerun. People like him, but much more importantly to me, everybody respects him. And when I told Paul Ryan that I wanted to do this, I would say he may be the only person that was not totally thrilled -- right, Mike? Because he said, I don't want to lose this guy.

But you will be getting a total star. You're going to be getting a total gem. He's a gem. (Applause.) You'll see. You'll see. And many of you know him anyway. But you're going to see. And again, we have some great people going in. But this one is something -- is going to be very special, because this is one, if I had to name the most important, this would certainly be perhaps -- you know, in certain ways, you could say my most important. You do the job like everybody in this room is capable of doing. And the generals are wonderful, and the fighting is wonderful. But if you give them the right direction, boy, does the fighting become easier. And, boy, do we lose so fewer lives, and win so quickly. And that's what we have to do. We have to start winning again.

You know, when I was young and when I was -- of course, I feel young. I feel like I'm 30, 35, 39. (Laughter.) Somebody said, are you young? I said, I think I'm young. You know, I was stopping -- when we were in the final month of that campaign, four stops, five stops, seven stops. Speeches, speeches, in front of 25,000, 30,000 people, 15,000, 19,000 from stop to stop. I feel young.

When I was young -- and I think we're all sort of young. When I was young, we were always winning things in this country. We'd win with trade. We'd win with wars. At a certain age, I remember hearing from one of my instructors, "The United States has never lost a war." And then, after that, it's like we haven't won anything. We don't win anymore. The old expression, "to the victor belong the spoils" -- you remember. I always used to say, keep the oil. I wasn't a fan of Iraq. I didn't want to go into Iraq. But I will tell you, when we were in, we got out wrong. And I always said, in addition to that, keep the oil. Now, I said it for economic reasons. But if you think about it, Mike, if we kept the oil you probably wouldn't have ISIS because that's where they made their money in the first place. So we should have kept the oil. But okay. (Laughter.) Maybe you'll have another chance. But the fact is, should have kept the oil.

I believe that this group is going to be one of the most important groups in this country toward making us safe, toward making us winners again, toward ending all of the problems. We have so many problems that are interrelated that we don't even think of, but interrelated to the kind of havoc and fear that this sick group of people has caused. So I can only say that I am with you 1,000 percent.

And the reason you're my first stop is that, as you know, I have a running war with the media. They are among the most dishonest human beings on Earth. (Laughter and applause.) And they sort of made it sound like I had a feud with the intelligence community. And I just want to let you know, the reason you're the number-one stop is exactly the opposite -- exactly. And they understand that, too.

And I was explaining about the numbers. We did a thing yesterday at the speech. Did everybody like the speech? (Applause.) I've been given good reviews. But we had a massive field of people. You saw them. Packed. I get up this morning, I turn on one of the networks, and they show an empty field. I say, wait a minute, I made a speech. I looked out, the field was -- it looked like a million, million and a half people. They showed a field where there were practically nobody standing there. And they said, Donald Trump did not draw well. I said, it was almost raining, the rain should have scared them away, but God looked down and he said, we're not going to let it rain on your speech.

In fact, when I first started, I said, oh, no. The first line, I got hit by a couple of drops. And I said, oh, this is too bad, but we'll go right through it. But the truth is that it stopped immediately. It was amazing. And then it became really sunny. And then I walked off and it poured right after I left. It poured. But, you know, we have something that's amazing because we had -- it looked -- honestly, it looked like a million and a half people. Whatever it was, it was. But it went all the way back to the Washington Monument. And I turn on -- and by mistake I get this network, and it showed an empty field. And it said we drew 250,000 people. Now, that's not bad, but it's a lie. We had 250,000 people literally around -- you know, in the little bowl that we constructed. That was 250,000 people. The rest of the 20-block area, all the way back to the Washington Monument, was packed. So we caught them, and we caught them in a beauty. And I think they're going to pay a big price.

We had another one yesterday, which was interesting. In the Oval Office there's a beautiful statue of Dr. Martin Luther King. And I also happen to like Churchill, Winston Churchill. I think most of us like Churchill. He doesn't come from our country, but had a lot to do with it. Helped us; real ally. And, as you know, the Churchill statue was taken out -- the bust. And as you also probably have read, the Prime Minister is coming over to our country very shortly. And they wanted to know whether or not I'd like it back. I say, absolutely, but in the meantime we have a bust of Churchill.

So a reporter for Time magazine -- and I have been on there cover, like, 14 or 15 times. I think we have the all-time record in the history of Time Magazine. Like, if Tom Brady is on the cover, it's one time, because he won the Super Bowl or something, right? (Laughter.) I've been on it for 15 times this year. I don't think that's a record, Mike, that can ever be broken. Do you agree with that? What do you think?

But I will say that they said -- it was very interesting -- that Donald Trump took down the bust, the statue, of Dr. Martin Luther King. And it was right there. But there was a cameraman that was in front of it. (Laughter.) So Zeke -- Zeke from Time Magazine writes a story about I took down. I would never do that because I have great respect for Dr. Martin Luther King. But this is how dishonest the media is.

Now, the big story -- the retraction was, like, where? Was it a line? Or do they even bother putting it in? So I only like to say that because I love honesty. I like honest reporting.

I will tell you, final time -- although I will say it, when you let in your thousands of other people that have been trying to come in -- because I am coming back -- we're going to have to get you a larger room. (Applause.) We may have to get you a larger room. You know? And maybe, maybe, it will be built by somebody that knows how to build, and we won't have columns. (Laughter.) You understand that? (Applause.) We get rid of the columns.

No, I just wanted to really say that I love you, I respect you. There's nobody I respect more. You're going to do a fantastic job. And we're going to start winning again, and you're going to be leading the charge.

So thank you all very much. (Applause.) Thank you -- you're beautiful. Thank you all very much. Have a good time. I'll be back. I'll be back. Thank you.

Thank you, everybody. (Applause.) Thank you all. I didn't know that Melania was going to be saying the Lord's Prayer, but I thought that was very beautiful. Thank you. (Applause.) Thank you.

It's so great to be here in Florida, my second home, with you. This is a state I truly love. This is a state where we all had great victory together. Thank you. (Applause.) It's now been one month since my inauguration, and I am here to tell you about our incredible progress in Making America Great Again. (Applause.) And I'm also here to tell you about our plans for the future. And they're big and they're bold, and it's what our country is all about, believe me. (Applause.)

I'm here because I want to be among my friends and among the people. (Applause.) This was a great movement -- a movement like has never been seen before in our country, or probably anywhere else. This was a truly great movement, and I want to be here with you, and I will always be with you, I promise you. (Applause.) I want to be in a room filled with hardworking American patriots who love their country, who salute their flag, and who pray for a better future. (Applause.)

I also want to speak to you without the filter of the fake news. (Applause.) The dishonest media, which has published one false story after another, with no sources, even though they pretend they have them -- they make them up in many cases -- they just don't want to report the truth, and they've been calling us wrong now for two years. They don't get it, but they're starting to get it, I can tell you that. (Applause.) They've become a big part of the problem. They are part of the corrupt system.

Thomas Jefferson, Andrew Jackson and Abraham Lincoln, and many of our greatest Presidents, fought with the media and called them out, oftentimes on their lies. When the media lies to people, I will never, ever, let them get away with it. I will do whatever I can that they don't get away with it. (Applause.) They have their own agenda, and their agenda is not your agenda. (Applause.)

In fact, Thomas Jefferson said, "Nothing can [now] be believed which is seen in a newspaper." "Truth itself," he said, "becomes suspicious by being put into that polluted vehicle." That was June 14th -- my birthday -- (laughter and applause) -- 1807.

But despite all their lies, misrepresentations and false stories, they could not defeat us in the primaries and they could not defeat us in the general election, and we will continue to expose them for what they are. And, most importantly, we will continue to win, win, win. (Applause.)

We are not going to let the fake news tell us what to do, how to live, or what to believe. We are free and independent people, and we will make our own choices. (Applause.) We are here today to speak the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. I hear your demands, I hear your voices, and I promise you I will deliver. I promise that. (Applause.)

And, by the way, you've seen what we've accomplished in a very short period of time. The White House is running so smoothly. So smoothly. (Applause.) And believe me, I -- and we -- inherited one big mess. That, I can tell you. But I know that you want safe neighborhoods where the streets belong to families and communities, not gang members and drug deals who are right now, as I speak, being thrown out of the country and they will not be let back in. (Applause.) We will have strong borders again. (Applause.) And I mean that. And you've seen it on television. You've seen it on television.

General Kelly, now Secretary Kelly, he's really doing the job. You're seeing it. The gang members -- bad, bad people. I said it day one. And they're going out, or they're being put in prison. But for the most part, get them the hell out of there. Bring them back to where they came from. (Applause.)

The fact is, you want great schools for your children, you want good, high-paying jobs for yourselves and for your loved one, and for the future of your families. You want a health care system -- and, by the way, we are going to be submitting in a couple of weeks a great health care plan that's going to take the place of the disaster known as Obamacare. (Applause.) It will be repealed and replaced. And for those people, the people that are put into rooms where Republicans are talking about the plan, and it wouldn't matter what they say -- for those people, just so you understand, our plan will be much better health care at a much lower cost, okay? (Applause.) Nothing to complain about. Obamacare, remember, it is a disaster.

You want low-cost American energy also, which means lifting the restrictions on oil, on shale, on natural gas, and on clean -- very clean coal. We're going to put the miners back to work. The miners go back to work. (Applause.) You want us to enforce our immigration laws and to defend our borders. You want fair trade deals and a level playing field. We don't have a level playing field. Because you understand that when American workers win, America as a country wins, and wins big. And every country over the last long period of time has been taking advantage of the stupidity of our politicians. It's not going to happen any longer. (Applause.)

You want lower taxes, less regulation, millions of new jobs, and more products stamped with those beautiful, beautiful words: "Made in the USA." (Applause.) You want to make it easier for companies to do business in America and harder for companies to leave. We don't want companies saying, "Everybody is fired, we're moving to another country, we're going to make the product, sell it across the border, and isn't wonderful?" Not going to happen anymore. We're going to have strong borders. And when they want to sell that product back across our border, they're going to pay a 35 percent tax. And you know what? They're never going to leave. They will never, ever leave. (Applause.) And you've seen that because I've already displayed it for the last two months, even before I got into office. They're not leaving. And if they do, they're going to pay a very, very big price for terminating the relationship to our workers.

You want a government that serves the people -- not the donors and not the special interests. In short, you want a government that keeps its promises. A great spirit of optimism is sweeping -- and you see it -- it's sweeping all across the country. Look at what's happening to the stock market. Look at what's happening to every poll when it comes to optimism in our country. It's sweeping across the country. And, in fact, every day for the last long period of days, the stock market, meaning companies, have been hitting new highs. They're going to start hiring. It's going to be a new day in America. You're going to be proud again. (Applause.)

Jobs are already starting to pour back in. They're coming back in like you haven't seen in a long time. Ford, General Motors, Fiat-Chrysler are bringing in and bringing back thousands of jobs, investing billions of dollars because of the new business climate that we are creating in our country.

In Arizona, Intel -- great company -- just announced it will open a new plant that will create at least 10,000 brand-new, beautiful American jobs. (Applause.)

I've followed through on my promise to withdraw from the job-killing disaster known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership -- TPP. We have just terminated our relationship to it. We're going to have tremendous trade deals all over the world, but they're going to be bilateral or, as we would say, one-on-one. None of these deals where we get caught in quick sand, where we get mired in and we can't do anything about it, like, by the way, NAFTA and so many others.

And my administration has begun plans to crack down on foreign cheating and currency manipulation, which is killing our companies and really, really hurting our workers. We're going to end it. (Applause.)

Within a few days of taking the Oath of Office, I've taken steps to begin the construction of the Keystone and the Dakota Access pipelines. (Applause.) Anywhere from 30,000 to 40,000 jobs. And very importantly, as I was about to sign it, I said, who makes the pipe? Who makes the pipe? Something this audience understands very well, right? Simple question. The lawyers put this very complex document in front. I said, who makes the pipe? They said, sir, it can be made anywhere. I said, not anymore. So I put a little clause on the bottom: The pipe has to be made in the United States of America if we're going to have pipelines. (Applause.)

We believe in two simple rules. And I can tell you, everybody in this massive -- this is a massive hangar; this is for the big planes. And, by the way, do you think that one media group back there, that one network, will show this crowd? Not one. Not one.

AUDIENCE: Booo --

THE PRESIDENT: Not one. They won't show the crowd.

You know, coming in on the plane -- and that plane represents so much -- and just so you know, they were close to signing a $4.2 billion deal to have a new Air Force One. Can you believe this? I said, no way. I said, I refuse to fly in a $4.2 billion airplane. (Applause.) I refuse. So I got Boeing in -- and it is actually -- a lot of people don't know -- the Air Force One project is actually two planes. Why they need two planes, we'll have to talk about that. But they have two planes. But we've got that price down by over a billion dollars. And I probably haven't spoken, to be honest with you, for more than an hour on the project. But I got the generals in, who are fantastic. I got Boeing in. But I told Boeing it's not good enough, we're not going to do it -- the price is still too high.

On the F-35 fighter jet, we were hundreds of billions of dollars over budget, seven years late. Great plane. Lockheed Martin -- a great plane. So think of it: They're seven years late, they're hundreds of -- billions of dollars over budget. Other than that, by the way, the project is going extremely well. And I got the folks in from Lockheed Martin, who are terrific people and a terrific product, by the way. I also got Boeing in. I said, do me a favor, give me a competing offer. And now they're competing and fighting, and we've gotten hundreds of millions of dollars off the price of a plane that was going to be ordered.

In other words, if my opponent got in, there would have been no calls made to Lockheed and Boeing. They would have signed contracts. So they're going to make plenty of money but it's going to be a lot less than they would have made without Trump. That, I can tell you. And you might as well know about it -- (applause) -- because nobody talks. And, by the way, that's for fighter jets -- one of the biggest orders in the history of aviation, the order for the F-35 you've been reading about it -- because it was a disaster under the last administration. A disaster. And now we have it running beautifully.

In fact, when the Prime Minister of Japan -- Prime Minister Abe, who's great; great guy -- when he came over, he said, thank you. I said, for what? "You saved us many, many millions of dollars on the F-35 fighter jet." Because when I negotiated, I took our allies into the same negotiation. So the first thing he did was he thanked me for saving them money, and that's good. Okay? That's good. (Applause.) I know the media will never thank me, so at least Japan is thanking me, right? (Applause.)

But we believe in two simple rules: Buy American and hire American. We believe in them. (Applause.) We've just issued a new order which requires that for every one new regulation, two old regulations must be eliminated. (Applause.) And, by the way, a new director was just approved. Can you imagine the length of time it's taking the Democrats? And I actually think it's an embarrassment to them. But this is getting to be record-setting territory. These are incredible people.

Scott Pruitt was just approved, just now approved, for the Environmental Protection Agency. He'll do so good. (Applause.) He'll do so good. But he won't have projects going 10 and 12 years and then getting rejected. And they may be rejected, but they'll be rejected quickly. But for the most part, they're going to be accepted, they're going to be environmentally friendly, and he is going to be a great Secretary. He will be amazing. So we're very happy. That took place yesterday.

That's going to be a big difference, because they were clogging up the veins of our country with the environmental impact statements and all of the rules and regulations. It was impossible to navigate for companies. And what did it really mean? Forget about the companies. What did it mean? It meant no jobs. It meant companies leaving our country and going to foreign countries to do things that they'd rather do here. So we're going to have a whole big situation. We are going to unfree all of those companies. They are going to be -- they're going to have freedom. They're going to be able to build what they want to build. It will be environmentally friendly. And we're going to start producing jobs like you've never seen before. That's going to happen. That was a big thing. (Applause.)

We're standing up for the incredible men and women, always, of law enforcement. (Applause.) We're standing up. And I can tell you, the military and law enforcement, they stood up big. I don't say for me -- I'm the messenger, folks; I'm the messenger. They stood up for us in this last election. We got numbers that nobody believed were possible, from law enforcement and from military -- basically people that where uniforms like us. Isn't that nice?

And I saw this man on television just now. You -- I just saw him on television. He said, "I love Trump. Let Trump do what he has to do." That's my guy, right there. (Applause.) It's true. Come here. Come here. No, I just -- I'm coming in. That's okay. Let him up. Let him up. I'm not worried about him. I'm only worried he's going to give me a kiss. I'm not worried about anything else. This guy is so great. He was one of many people -- they're interviewing people in the line -- and I have to say, there's a tiny group of protestors out there, and they were given as much publicity as this massive room packed with people. But they interviewed this man. Come on up here. Come on up. This guy is great. Hop over the fence. Come on. He can do it. This guy is in good shape. Look at him. Look at this guy. Come on. This guy is great. Don't worry about it. No, no, no come here. They're going to throw -- come on up. Come on. Come here. (Applause.)

This guy -- so he's been all over television, saying the best things, and I see him standing. Didn't you get here like at four in the morning?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I did, sir.

THE PRESIDENT: Say a couple of words to this crowd. (Applause.)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Mr. President, thank you, sir. We, the people, our movement, is the reason why our President of the United States is standing here in front of us today. (Applause.) When President Trump, during the election, promised all these things that he was going to do for us, I knew he was going to do this for us. (Applause.)

Mr. President, thank you so much, sir.

THE PRESIDENT: A star is born. A star is born. (Applause.) Thank you. That's fine.

AUDIENCE: U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A!

THE PRESIDENT: I wouldn't say that Secret Service was thrilled with that -- (laughter) -- but we know our people, right? We know our people. (Applause.) He's a great guy. And so many others. I see some others, they're being interviewed. I see them over here. They started -- they came at four in the morning. The media will give them no credit. The media, as I told you, they won't show this crowd. Look at that -- all the way outside. This is as big a hangar as you get. All the way outside, way back to the fences. Amazing. I want to thank you. But I want to thank everybody.

So I've directed the Department of Justice to take a firm, firm stance to protect our cops, sheriffs and police from crimes of violence against them. (Applause.) We will work with our police, not against our police. Our police do a great job, and they've never been troubled like they're troubled now. It's very unfair what's happening. So we want to cherish our law enforcement, and we will always protect those who protect us.

We've directed the creation of a task force for reducing violent crime in America, including our inner cities. We're going to make our inner cities safe again. Look at what's going on. Look at what's happening in Chicago. Hundreds of shootings, hundreds of deaths. I'll tell you, what's happening in Chicago and many other places. Safety is a civil right, and we will fight to make America totally safe again.

I've ordered the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Justice to coordinate on a plan to destroy transnational criminal cartels, which are all over the United States, and we are going to stop the drugs from pouring into your country, into your community, into your cities, and poisoning our youth. We're stopping it. (Applause.) We're stopping it.

We've taken historic action to secure the southern border, and I've ordered the construction of a great border wall, which will start very shortly. (Applause.) And I've taken decisive action to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. (Applause.)

So you probably read where we want to enforce the laws as existing, and so we signed an order a couple of weeks ago, and it was taken over by a court, originally by a judge, and then a --

AUDIENCE: Booo --

THE PRESIDENT: Yeah. It's very sad. And, you know, the reason is for protection and safety. So the statute is so plain and so clear. I said last week -- I was speaking to a great group of sheriffs, the sheriffs group in Washington, and I said, if you have a college education, you can understand it; if you have a high school education, you can understand it; if you were a bad student in high school, you can understand it. And I was told -- I'll check, but I found it hard to believe -- in an over 30-page decision by the appellate court, three judges -- and you could tell by the way they were reacting, because it was broadcast on television, and everything we do gets a lot of people watching. So you could tell by the way that phone call went, it wasn't looking good. And when they wrote their decision, as I understand it -- maybe I'm wrong -- but they didn't write the statute they were making the decision about, because every word of the statute is a total kill for the other side.

So I thought I'd read it, and here's what it says. This is what it says: "Whenever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or any class of aliens into the United States" -- okay, so essentially, whenever somebody comes into the United States, right -- if it "would be detrimental to the interests of the United States" -- okay, now you know the countries we're talking about, and these were countries picked by Obama; they weren't even picked -- they were picked by Obama -- "he may" -- so the President may -- "by proclamation and for such period as he shall deem necessary" -- now, because it's old, it should have said he or she, right? They were not politically correct when they drew this. In fact, that's the only thing that was actually wrong with it. He or she -- but I don't think the women care too much about that, right? I don't think so.

By the way, we did very well with women. (Applause.) You know, my wife said, when some of these phony polls were put out -- you know, the CNN poll was so far off -- the phony polls. But when some of these -- she said, what's wrong with you and women? We did very nicely with women. We did nicely with a lot of groups that they didn't think we were going to do so nicely with. I guess we had to. That's why we're all here tonight, right? (Applause.)

So, and it goes, "…and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate." So basically it says the President has the right to keep people out if he feels it's not in the best interest of our country. Right? (Applause.) Unbelievable. Unbelievable. And I listened to these judges talk and talk and talk. So unfair.

So we'll be doing something over the next couple of days. We don't give up. We never give up. (Applause.) We had a court that I disagree with, I disagree with big league. And, by the way, whether you read it or whether you watch it on television, when other lawyers come on many of them can't even understand. They're saying, how do you come up with that decision? It cannot be more simple. So they're ruling on what I just read you, and they don't even quote it in their ruling -- because you can't, because it's too obvious. So we will do something next week. I think you'll be impressed. Let's see what happens.

Here's the bottom line: We've got to keep our country safe. You look at what's happening. We've got to keep our country safe. (Applause.) You look at what's happening in Germany. You look at what's happening last night in Sweden. Sweden? Who would believe this? Sweden? They took in large numbers. They're having problems like they never thought possible. You look at what's happening in Brussels. You look at what's happening all over the world. Take a look at Nice. Take a look at Paris. We've allowed thousands and thousands of people into our country, and there was no way to vet those people. There was no documentation. There was no nothing.

So we're going to keep our country safe. (Applause.) And we all have heart, by the way. And what I want to do is build safe zones in Syria and other places so they can stay there and live safely until their cities and their country -- that mess that I was left by Obama and everybody else. Folks, we were left a mess like you wouldn't believe. But we're going to build safe zones. We're going to have those safe zones. You know, we do owe $20 trillion, okay? So we're going to have the Gulf States pay for those safe zones. They have nothing but money. And we're going to do it that way, instead of taking massive numbers -- tens of thousands of people -- into our country, and we don't know anything about those people.

We want people to come into our country, but we want people that love us. We want people that can cherish us and their traditions of our country. We want people that are going to be great for our country. We don't want people with bad, bad ideas. We don't want that.

I've also directed the defense community, headed by General, and now Sec -- oh, you know, he said it -- he said it -- and now Secretary “Mad Dog” Mattis -- (applause) -- to develop a plan to totally destroy ISIS. (Applause.) I have ordered the Department of Defense to begin plans for the great rebuilding of the United States military. (Applause.) We will pursue peace through strength. Our military is badly depleted. You have planes in the military where the father flew them and now the son is flying them, they're so old. We make the best equipment anywhere in the world. We're going to start using our best and most modern equipment. (Applause.)

And we're going to make sure that our veterans have the care they need when they come home. (Applause.) We love our veterans. (Applause.) We're going to do a great job for our veterans. Our veterans have been very, very sadly treated. These are our great, great people. We owe them so much. Our veterans are going to be taken care for once and for all. Our system and our country has let down our veterans. We are not going to let that go on any further. You wait until you see what we're going to be doing for our great veterans. Thank you, veterans, for all -- who's here? Who's a veteran? (Applause.) We're going to take care of our veterans.

We're going to downsize the bloated bureaucracy and make government lean and accountable. We are going to drain the swamp in Washington, D.C. (Applause.)

AUDIENCE: Drain the swamp! Drain the swamp! Drain the swamp!

THE PRESIDENT: I've already imposed -- I'm not sure they're too happy about it -- a five-year lobbying ban on executive branch officials, and a lifetime ban on lobbying for a foreign government. (Applause.)

And there's another major promise I have kept to the American people: I've nominated a fantastic justice to replace the late, great Justice Scalia. (Applause.) His name is Judge Neil Gorsuch. (Applause.) And he comes from my list of 20 very, very highly-qualified judges. He's incredible, and he has an incredible resume. He's respected by all. His education is as good as it can get. His writings are truly amazing. He will be a true defender of our Constitution.

So let's tell the Senate Democrats to support his nomination for the good of the country. Because what's happening with the Democrats -- no wonder they're doing so badly. No wonder they're doing so badly. You take a look. Race after race -- I just want to tell you, in case you didn't read it -- of course, you're reading the fake news -- but the Democrats were supposed to win the presidency. That didn't happen. They were supposed to take over the Senate. That didn't happen. And they were supposed to take over, potentially, even the House. It was going to be, four weeks out, the greatest defeat in the modern history of American politics. And it was -- but it was for the Democrats, not for the Republicans. (Applause.)

So we have to tell the Democrats -- because they're doing the wrong thing for the American people -- to stop their tactics of delay and obstruction and destruction. They got to get on with it.

My administration is also pushing ahead strongly with very historic tax reform. We are working to lower tax rates on the middle class, to reduce tax rates, big league, on businesses, and to make our tax code more fair and very simple for all Americans, so it's understandable by everyone. (Applause.)

Senate Democrats should work with us to lower taxes and bring back our jobs. But the Democrats want to increase your taxes very, very substantially. We're not going to let that happen. It's also time for the Senate Democrats to take responsibility for Obamacare, and to work with us to replace it with new reforms that reverse this nationwide health care tragedy. It's a tragedy. You look at some states -- Arizona -- up 116 percent. And your deductibles have gotten so high that you can never use it. Obamacare doesn't work. It's become totally unaffordable. Remember they said to health care -- it's unaffordable. It doesn't work. And I said to the Republicans, I said, you want to do something great politically? Don't do anything. Sit back for two years, let it explode; the Democrats will come and beg for us to do something. But we can't do that to the American people. We have to fix it, and we will. (Applause.)

We need members of both parties to join hands and work with us to pass a $1 trillion infrastructure plan to build new roads, and bridges, and airports, and tunnels, and highways, and railways all across our great nation.

You are all part of this incredible movement -- this movement that we talk about so much, that's been written about on the cover of every magazine all over the world. It's a movement that is just sweeping -- it's sweeping across our country. It's sweeping, frankly, across the globe. Look at Brexit. Look at Brexit. Much smaller example, but it's still something you can look at.

People want to take back control of their countries, and they want to take back control of their lives and the lives of their family. (Applause.) The nation-state remains the best model for human happiness, and the American nation remains the greatest symbol of liberty, of freedom, and justice on the face of God's Earth. (Applause.) And now we have spirit like we've never had before. It's now that we have our sacred duty, and we have no choice, and we want this choice to defend our country, to protect its values, and to serve its great, great citizens. (Applause.)

Erasing national borders does not make people safer or more prosperous -- it undermines democracy and trades away prosperity. We're giving it away. The so-called global elite have done very well for themselves, but have left working families with shrinking wages, really -- I mean, they are shrinking. Eighteen years ago, many of you in this room made more money working one job than you're making right now working two and three jobs. (Applause.)

Instead of peace, we've seen wars that never end and conflicts that never seem to go away. We don't fight to win. We fight politically correct wars. We don't win anymore. We don't win at trade. We don't win in any capacity. We don't win anymore. We're going to start winning again, believe me. (Applause.)

And we have the chance now, working together, to deliver change for the ages -- this will be change for the ages, change like never before; to pursue real peace, real stability and real prosperity. We want to secure our borders and protect our workers; to rebuild our military and our infrastructure; to fix our schools and restore safety to our neighborhoods; to bring hope and opportunity to our inner cities; to ensure a level playing field for all women in the workforce; to reform our tax code and remove the regulations that undermine growth and innovation; and to replace chasms of distrust with new bridges of opportunity and cooperation.

We must ignore the tired echoes of yesterday's fights. We're fighting battles that no longer help us. We're fighting battles that other people aren't treating us fairly in the fight. I'm a NATO fan, but many of the countries in NATO, many of the countries that we protect, many of these countries are very rich countries. They're not paying their bills. They're not paying their bills. They have to help us. No longer are we chained down by the discredited approaches of the past. No longer must we listen to those who have nothing to brag about but failure. New circumstances demand new solutions.

Americans have fought and won wars together. Our heroes have shed their blood together and lost their lives. Our citizens have raised their children together, fought for justice together, and shared common hopes and dreams from one generation to the next, stretching back to the first day of our American independence.

This is our legacy. It belongs to all of you. And it belongs to every man, woman, and child in our nation. (Applause.)

Now is the time to call upon these deep ties in the name of bold action. Let us move past the differences of party and find a new loyalty rooted deeply in our country. We are all brothers and all sisters. We share one home, one destiny, and one glorious American flag. (Applause.)

We're united together by history and by providence. We will make America strong again, I promise. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again -- greater than ever before. (Applause.)

May God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America. Thank you. Thank you. (Applause.)

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is truly great to be back in the wonderful, beautiful state of Pennsylvania. (Applause.) I love this state and I love the people of this state. It's special and it carried us through a big, beautiful victory on November 8th. (Applause.)

I want to recognize some of our friends that have helped us so much. Congressman Scott Perry. (Applause.) G.T. Thompson. A couple of my originals, Mike Kelly -- who I watched on television. He was great. Where's Mike Kelly? Where is Mike Kelly? He's here someplace. Where is he? Boy, were you great on television this morning. And, of course, one of our other originals, Congressman Tom Marino. Right? (Applause.) Thank you. Thank you, Mike. Thank you, Tom.

As you may know, there's another big gathering taking place tonight in Washington, D.C. Did you hear about it?

AUDIENCE: Booo --

THE PRESIDENT: A large group of Hollywood actors and Washington media are consoling each other in a hotel ballroom in our nation's capital right now. (Applause.) They are gathered together for the White House Correspondents Dinner -- without the President. (Applause.) And I could not possibly be more thrilled than to be more than 100 miles away from Washington Swamp -- (applause) -- spending my evening with all of you, and with a much, much larger crowd and much better people. Right? (Applause.) Right?

AUDIENCE: U-S-A! U-S-A!

THE PRESIDENT: And look at the media back there. They would actually rather be here, I have to tell you.

AUDIENCE: Booo --

THE PRESIDENT: That's right.

AUDIENCE: CNN Sucks! CNN Sucks!

THE PRESIDENT: Media outlets like CNN and MSNBC are fake news. Fake news. And they're sitting and they're wishing, in Washington -- they're watching right now, they're watching. And they would love to be with us right here tonight. (Applause.)

But they're trapped at the dinner, which will be very, very boring. (Laughter.) But next year, maybe we'll make it more exciting for them in Washington, and we'll show up. But we have a good chance of showing up here again next year, too. (Applause.)

The truth is, there is no place I'd rather be than right here in Pennsylvania to celebrate our 100-day milestone to reflect on an incredible journey together, and to get ready for the great, great battles to come, and that we will win in every case, okay? We will win. (Applause.) Because make no mistake, we are just beginning in our fight to make America great again. (Applause.)

Now, before we talk about my first 100 days, which has been very exciting and very productive, let's rate the media's 100 days. Should we do that? Should we do it? Because, as you know, they are a disgrace. According to a Morning Consult poll, more than half of Americans say the media “is out of touch with everyday Americans.” And they've proven that. According to Media Research Center, 89 percent of the media's coverage of our administration has been negative -- and purposefully negative --

AUDIENCE: Booo --

THE PRESIDENT: And perhaps that's because, according to the Center for Public Integrity, 96 percent of journalists who made donations in the last election gave to our opponent. Does anybody remember who our opponent was? Huh? That was some opponent. Finally, according to a poll last year from the Associated Press, only 6 percent of Americans have a lot of confidence in America [sic]. That's very bad. That's much lower than Congress, by the way.

But I'll give you an example of something really incredible.

AUDIENCE: Booo --

THE PRESIDENT: That's right, get them out of here. Get them out.

AUDIENCE: U-S-A! U-S-A!

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. (Applause.)

Do we love our law enforcement, or what? (Applause.)

And I want to thank the fire marshals. They have a lot of people standing outside. We really maxed out. We broke the all-time record for this arena. How old is this arena? This is not -- we broke the all-time record. And I don't have a guitar, which is pretty tough.

So just as an example of media, take the totally failing New York Times.

AUDIENCE: Booo --

THE PRESIDENT: Pretty soon they'll only be on the Internet. The paper is getting smaller and smaller. You haven't noticed? It's starting to look like a comic book. (Laughter.) But I will tell you, because I watched, and I used to be in the real estate business, they sold their beautiful New York Times building in Manhattan -- a cathedral to journalism; such a beautiful, beautiful building -- for around $130 million. And a group that bought it later sold it for approximately $500 million. And now they live in a very ugly office building in a crummy location. (Laughter.)

Next, they buy the Boston Globe newspaper, with losses, for $1.3 billion, invest millions and millions and millions of dollars to get it going. And, in the end, they sell it for zero; they give it away. And then they write nasty editorials and op-eds telling me how I should be handling world events and our country. Tell me.

AUDIENCE: Booo --

THE PRESIDENT: But that's what we have. They're incompetent, dishonest people, who, after an election, had to apologize because they covered it, us, me, but all of us -- they covered it so badly that they felt they were forced to apologize because their predictions were so bad. You remember their predictions? They lost a lot of people because of the way they covered.

So here's the story. If the media's job is to be honest and tell the truth, then I think we would all agree the media deserves a very, very, big fat failing grade.

AUDIENCE: Booo -

THE PRESIDENT: Very dishonest people. And not all of them. You know, we call it the "fake news." Not all of them. If you notice now, they're using -- everybody is using the world fake news. Where did you hear it first, folks? (Applause.) By contrast, for the last 100 days, my administration has been delivering every single day for the great citizens of our country -- whether it's putting our coal miners back to work, protecting America's steel and aluminum workers -- we love that steel and aluminum -- or eliminating job-killing regulations, we are keeping one promise after another. And, frankly, the people are really happy about it. They see what's happening. (Applause.)

But to understand the historic progress that we've made, we must speak honestly about the situation that we and I inherited. Because believe me, the previous administration gave us a mess.

AUDIENCE: Booo --

THE PRESIDENT: For decades, our country has lived through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. You people know it better than anybody, in Pennsylvania. Our factories were shuttered, our steel mills closed down, and our jobs were stolen away and shipped far away to other countries, some of which you've never even heard of. Politicians sent troops to protect the borders of foreign nations, but left America's borders wide open for all to violate.

We've spent billions and billions of dollars on one global project after another, and yet, as gangs flooded into our country, we couldn't even provide safety for our own people.

Our government rushed to join international agreements where the United States pays the costs and bears the burdens, while other countries get the benefit and pay nothing.

AUDIENCE: Booo --

THE PRESIDENT: This includes deals like the one-sided Paris Climate Accord, where the United States pays billions of dollars while China, Russia and India have contributed and will contribute nothing.

AUDIENCE: Booo --

THE PRESIDENT: Does that remind you of the Iran deal? How about that beauty, right?

On top of all of that, it's estimated that full compliance with the agreement could ultimately shrink America's GDP by $2.5 trillion over a 10-year period. That means factories and plants closing all over our country. Here we go again. Not with me, folks. (Applause.)

Those are the facts, whether we like them or not. The dishonest media won't print them, won't report them, because the Washington media is part of the problem: their priorities are not my priorities and they're not your priorities, believe me. (Applause.) Their agenda is not your agenda. And I'll be making a big decision on the Paris accord over the next two weeks. (Applause.) And we will see what happens.

But they're all part of a broken system that is profited from this global theft and plunder of American wealth at the expense of the American worker. We are not going to let other countries take advantage of us anymore. Because, from now on, it's going to be America first. (Applause.)

And I have to --

AUDIENCE: U-S-A! U-S-A!

THE PRESIDENT: And I have to just interject -- because, as you know, I've been a big critic of China, and I've been talking about currency manipulation for a long time. But I have to tell you that, during the election, number one, they stopped. But more importantly, just to show you the dishonesty -- so we have currency manipulation by China, but China is helping us possibly, or probably, with the North Korean situation, okay? (Applause.) Which is a great thing.

And I met with the President of China at great length in Florida, and we had long, long talks -- hours and hours and hours. He's a good man. Now he's representing China. He's not representing us. But he's a good man. And I believe he wants to get that situation taken care of. They have tremendous power, and we'll see what happens.

But the media said, Donald Trump refuses to name China a currency manipulator. Now, this of think of this. Think of this. Now, we have to have a little flexibility. So I meet with the President of China, and I say, could you help us out with North Korea? You know, you give them 93 percent of their different materials that they need and their food. You have a lot of power. We have a great relationship. And then the media said, why didn't he call Donald Trump, and why didn't Donald Trump at a meeting say you're a currency manipulator?

So here's the story. "Listen, Mr. President, will you help us out with North Korea? But, by the way, you're manipulating your currency." It doesn't work, right? (Laughter and applause.) So instead of -- you understand. So instead of saying that, let's see what happens. I honestly believe that he's trying very hard. Not an easy situation for China, believe me. Not an easy situation. But we have somebody there who's causing a lot of trouble for the world. We have China, who is really trying to help us. You've seen they've sent back vast amounts of coal coming out North Korea. So let's see what happens. And I think it's not exactly the right time to call China a currency manipulator right now. Do we agree with that? (Applause.) But they never say that. They say, why didn't he do it.

So I promised you in my inaugural address, 100 days ago, that now arrives the hour of action. And we've, believe me, started from day out. And that is what we've delivered -- 100 days of action. In fact, those people and others are exhausted. They've never seen anything like that. They've never seen anything like this. (Applause.)

We are ending the offshoring and bringing back our beautiful, wonderful, great American jobs. (Applause.) We are eradicating the criminal gangs and cartels that have infiltrated our country. You're reading about them all the time. Some of you have big problems with them. Thank you for that sign. "Blacks for Trump." I love that guy. (Applause.) "Blacks for Trump." Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, man. That's great. That's really cool. I appreciate it.

And we're taking steps to renegotiate or cancel any agreement that fails to protect American interests. Here are just some of our great achievements from the first 100 days. And I will tell you, in addition to that, we have built such strong foundations with the leaders of foreign countries. And we're set to rock. But we have great relationships with Germany and Japan and China and so many others, the UK. Such great relationships. That's part of the process.

We've appointed and confirmed a brand new justice of the United States Supreme Court -- (applause) -- Justice Neil Gorsuch, who will uphold the Constitution and the right of Americans to govern their own affairs. And the last time a new Supreme Court justice was confirmed in the first 100 days was 136 years ago, in 1881. And I was devastated to hear that, because I thought I'd be the only to have done that. (Applause.) A long time ago.

To protect our jobs and our economic freedom, I immediately withdrew the United States from the horrible, disastrous, would have been another but worse, Trans-Pacific Partnership. (Applause.) That would have taken your jobs in Pennsylvania, that I can tell you. That was a total hoax. The TPP would have been a tremendous disaster for our country, and we are not going to surrender Pennsylvania jobs ever again. We've done that once before. It's not going to happen. (Applause.)

We've just launched an investigation into foreign steel dumping and aluminum dumping throughout our country. We are reviewing every single trade deal, and wherever there is cheating, we will take immediate action and there will be penalties. (Applause.) And we have with us tonight, Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross, and one of the great, great people on fair trade and good trade, Mr. Peter Navarro. (Applause.) Thank you. Thank you.

And we will renegotiate NAFTA. And if we don't get a good deal and a fair deal for our country -- and I've been saying for a long time, we'll either renegotiate or we'll terminate. I announced the other day, we were going to terminate. Everybody said we'll terminate. Two people that I like very much -- the President of Mexico, the Prime Minister of Canada -- they called up; they said, could we negotiate? I said, yes, we can renegotiate. So we'll start a renegotiation, and hopefully it will be fair for everybody. (Applause.) And if it's not a fair deal for our country -- because you have to understand, we have been on the wrong side of the NAFTA deal with Canada and with Mexico for many, many years, many decades. We can't allow it to happen. So we're going to renegotiate. And if we can't make a fair deal for our companies and our workers, we will terminate NAFTA, okay? (Applause.)

Our directives will put brand new Pennsylvania steel into the spine of America. (Applause.) We've ordered billions and billions of dollars in unpaid duties to be collected at the border from countries that break the rules. And that just started. It's going to be a lot coming in. (Applause.) We just want fairness. And I've followed through on my promise and issued a new government directive to buy American and hire American. (Applause.)

In just these first few months, we've created 99,000 new construction jobs, 49,000 new manufacturing jobs, and 27,000 new mining jobs. Who are the miners here? The miners -- finally, we're taking care of our miners. (Applause.) We love our miners. And we have over 600,000 new jobs. And, by the way, the stock market, since our election -- (applause) -- is through the roof. I believe, from the point of the election, isn't it too bad that the Obama administration gets a lot of credit for those couple of months, but --

AUDIENCE: Booo --

THE PRESIDENT: It's all right. Because we're doing fine, but they get credit for that because people started going wild with the stock. But I believe we have a record, from the time we got elected -- from November 8th -- we have a record, an all-time record, for the biggest increase in the stock market. So I'm very happy about that. (Applause.)

We've removed the shackles on energy exploration imposed by the last administration, lifting the restrictions on the production of oil, shale, and natural gas. And, very importantly for Pennsylvania, we have ended the war on beautiful, clean coal, and we are putting our great coal miners back to work. (Applause.) We love our miners.

I am also very pleased to say that we have finally cleared the way for the construction of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines. (Applause.) 48,000 new jobs. They couldn't get their approvals. We got them their approvals in 24 hours -- one day. And I want to tell you, the heads of those two companies, they didn't know what the hell happened. They said, how did this happen? They should go to bed and say their prayers. But that's going to be approximately 48,000 jobs.

My administration has also scrapped a job-killing regulation that was threatening our auto workers. We want more cars made in the USA. And that's going to happen. (Applause.) We've created a new rule which requires that for every one new regulation, two old regulations must be eliminated. (Applause.)

And we have signed massive executive orders, clearing up the environmental bureaucracy. We're going to have jobs, and you're seeing them already. We've also been very busy on the legislative front, which we have gotten no credit for, and yet I am signing away. I've signed 29 new bills -- a record not surpassed since the Truman administration. (Applause.) This includes 13 resolutions to eliminate intrusive federal regulations -- the most ever signed in our history.

In keeping our promise to our veterans, I've signed legislation to extend Veterans Choice. And David, the head of the Veterans Administration, is here with us tonight. David Shulkin. (Applause.) He's done an incredible job. And we've increased by 42 percent the approvals for veterans using the Choice program. (Applause.) I've also created an Office of Accountability at the VA. Our message to federal workers is clear: If you fail our veterans, you will be held accountable. First time. (Applause.)

To create accountability across government, I've issued a five-year ban on federal officials becoming lobbyists after they leave government service. Good? (Applause.) I've got a lot of people in my staff who are not exactly happy with that one, but that's okay. And I've issued a lifetime ban on federal officials becoming lobbyists for a foreign government. (Applause.) I've imposed these bans for a simple reason: It is time to drain the swamp. (Applause.) And that's what we're doing in Washington, D.C.

Perhaps in no area have past governments sold out to special interests and foreign lobbyists more than on the issue of immigration. Year after year, you pleaded for Washington to enforce our laws as illegal immigration surged, refugees flooded in, and lax vetting threatened your family's safety and security.

Your pleas have finally been --

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Build the wall!

THE PRESIDENT: Oh, don't worry, we're going to have the wall. Don't worry about it. (Applause.)

AUDIENCE: Build the wall! Build the wall!

THE PRESIDENT: You know, we've done so well at the border, a lot of people are saying, oh, wow, maybe the President doesn't need the wall. We need the wall to stop the drugs and the human trafficking. We need the wall.

In just 100 days, we have taken historic steps to secure our border, impose needed immigration control like you've never seen before -- is that true? -- and properly screen and vet those seeking admission into our country. They are going to come in because they love our country. We're not taking them otherwise.

We are operating on a very simple principle: that our immigration system should put the needs of American workers, American families, American companies, and American citizens first. (Applause.) I appointed a great military general, John Kelly, to lead the Department of Homeland Security. (Applause.)

Since my election, we've already achieved an unprecedented 73 percent reduction in illegal crossings on our southern border. (Applause.) The greatest reduction in the history of our country. And we just started.

The world is getting the message: If you try to illegally enter the United States, you will be caught, detained, deported, or put in prison, and it will happen. (Applause.)

As I campaigned across the nation, I met with the grieving mothers and fathers of children who had been killed -- viciously killed, violently killed -- by illegal immigrants. And I made them a promise: We will protect American lives. Your family member will not have died in vain. (Applause.)

Last week, we opened an office to support the Victims of Immigration Crime, called VOICE, to make sure that no American victim is ever again ignored by their government. Not going to happen anymore. (Applause.) And many people are now talking, as I just said, and using this tremendous early progress on the border to say we don't need the kind of safety that we will do need, including the wall. We need safety. We need cameras. We need all of the things that we're going to be putting in, and we need the wall. And we will build a wall as you are standing there tonight. We need the wall. (Applause.)

AUDIENCE: Build the wall! Build the wall!

THE PRESIDENT: We'll build the wall, folks. Don't even worry about it. Go to sleep. Go home, go to sleep. Rest assured. That's the final thing -- we need it. We need it. And if the Democrats knew what the hell they were doing, they'd approve it so easy, because we want to stop crime in our country. Obviously, they don't mind illegals coming in. They don't mind drugs pouring in. They don't mind, excuse me, MS-13 coming in. We're getting them all out of here.

Members of Congress who will be voting on border security have a simple choice: They can either vote to help drug cartels and criminal aliens trying to enter the United States, like, frankly, the Democrats are doing. Or they can vote to help American citizens and American families be safe. That's the choice. Who do you want to represent you? (Applause.)

Unfortunately, Democrats in Congress have no leadership. They're rudderless. Senator Schumer is a bad leader.

AUDIENCE: Booo --

THE PRESIDENT: I've known him a long time. Senator Schumer is a bad leader, not a natural leader at all. He works hard to study leadership. When you have to study leadership, you got problems. And his policies are hurting innocent Americans and making it easier for drug dealers to enter our country. Schumer is weak on crime and wants to raise your taxes through the roof.

AUDIENCE: Booo --

THE PRESIDENT: He is a poor leader -- known him a long time -- and he's leading the Democrats to doom. It's sad to see for our country what's happening to the Democrat Party.

At the heart of my administration's efforts to restore the rule of law has been a nationwide crackdown on criminal gangs. And that means taking the fight to the sanctuary cities that shield these dangerous criminals from removal. (Applause.) The last Administration allowed thousands of gang members to cross our borders and enter into our communities.

The last, very weak administration allowed thousands and thousands of gang members to cross our borders and enter into our communities where they wreaked havoc on our citizens. As you know, the bloodthirsty cartel, known as MS-13, has infiltrated our schools, threatening innocent children. We've seen the horrible assaults and many killings all over Long Island, where I grew up. We have seen the vicious spread of transnational gangs into all 50 states, and the human suffering they bring with them. I've been with the parents; I've seen the parents. It's devastation.

A very respected general recently told me that MS-13 are the equivalent in their meanness to al Qaeda. My administration will not rest until we have dismantled these violent gangs, and we're doing it rapidly, and we're sending them the hell out of our country. We're sending them back home where they belong. (Applause.)

One by one, we're finding the illegal immigrant drug dealers, gang members, and killers, and removing them from our country. And, once they are gone, folks -- you see what we're doing -- they will not let them back in. They're not coming back. (Applause.)

In this effort to restore safety to our country, we are going to strongly support the incredible men and women of law enforcement. (Applause.) I just signed an executive order directing Attorney General Jeff Sessions to combat crimes of violence against our police, and the Department of Justice is now prioritizing the prosecution of criminals who attack officers of the law. (Applause.)

And we are also working around the clock to keep our nation safe from terrorism. (Applause.) My administration has taken historic steps to improve screening and vetting for those seeking visas to enter the United States. We have seen the attacks, from 9/11 to Boston to San Bernardino. We have seen the bloodshed overseas. You look at what's happening in other countries.

We already have enough problems to worry about in the United States, which we love so much. We don't need to be admitting people who want to oppress, hurt or kill innocent Americans. They're not coming in. (Applause.)

So let me state this as clearly as I possibly can: We are going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. (Applause.)

AUDIENCE: U-S-A! U-S-A!

THE PRESIDENT: So I have a question for you. You've been to a lot of countries, you've seen a lot of rallies. First of all, is there any place like a Trump rally? In all fairness. Right? (Applause.)

So I did this a little bit during the rally. Haven't done it in a long time. Who has heard the poem called "The Snake"? So I have it. Does anybody want to hear it again? (Applause.) You sure? Are you sure? Okay. So let's dedicate this to General Kelly, the Border Patrol, and the ICE agents for doing such an incredible job. (Applause.) This was written by Al Wilson a long time ago. And I thought of it having to do with our borders and people coming in. And we know that we're going to have; we're going to have problems. We have to very, very carefully vet. We have to be smart. We have to be vigilant.

So here it is, "The Snake." It's called "The Snake":

"On her way to work one morning, down the path along the lake, a tender-hearted woman saw a poor, half-frozen snake. His pretty colored skin had been all frosted with the dew. "Poor thing!" she cried. "I'll take you in and I'll stake care of you." The border. (Laughter.) "Take me in, oh, tender woman. Take me in for Heaven's sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman," sighed the vicious snake. "She wrapped him up all cozy in a comforter of silk, and laid him by her fireside with some honey and some milk. She hurried home from work that night, and as soon as she arrived, she found that pretty snake she'd taken in had been revived. Take me in, oh, tender woman. Take me in for Heaven's sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman, sighed that vicious snake. She clutched him to her bosom, 'You're so beautiful,' she cried. 'But if I hadn't brought you in by now, oh, heavens you would have died.' She stroked his pretty skin again and kissed him and held him tight. But instead of saying, 'thank you,' that snake gave her a vicious bite! Take me in, oh, tender woman. Take me in for Heaven's sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman, sighed the vicious sake. 'I have saved you,' cried the woman. 'And you've bitten me, heavens why? You know your bite is poisonous, and now I'm going to die.' 'Oh, shut up, silly woman,' said the reptile with a grin. 'You knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in.'" (Applause.)

Does that explain it, folks? Does that explain it?

Keeping America safe also means rebuilding our defenses. Under the leadership of General “Mad Dog” Mattis -- (applause) -- and he is doing great; he is doing great. And, by the way, he's the man that recommended General Kelly. I said, Mad Dog, you got to give me a great general for the border. He gave me a great general, General Kelly. We have begun the process of rebuilding our military and restoring full readiness.

We are also protecting taxpayer dollars. I've already saved more than $725 million on a simple order of F-35 planes. I got involved in the negotiation. (Applause.) And there's billions of dollars to be saved on that and many other things.

We've also stepped up the fight against ISIS, and we will not stop until ISIS has been destroyed. (Applause.) At the same time, we've strengthened our friendships and alliances around the world. For instance, we were very proud to quietly work with the Egyptian government last week to ensure that an American citizen, a beautiful young woman named Aya, came home after being in an Egyptian prison for the past three years. (Applause.) She was going to be there for another 28 years. President Obama worked diligently for three years and didn't get them out. I met with President el-Sisi and it worked out quickly, and he was great. (Applause.) He was great about it. And not only did the court system in Egypt and President el-Sisi let her out, but they let out her husband, and they let out a total of eight people that were innocent. And they're all back here right now. (Applause.) Now, they won't include that in the 100 days, but I'm very proud to have done it. And she's a happy young woman, believe me.

She's very happy.

I said, "How tough, Aya, was it in that prison?" She said, you don't want to know. That was a tough prison.

We're also getting NATO countries to finally step up and contribute their fair share. They've begun to increase their contributions by billions of dollars, but we are not going to be satisfied until everyone pays what they owe. And I've been complaining about that for a long time. And it's a lot different now, but they still a lot of money.

Over the last eight years, America's average military and defense spending was double what all other NATO countries spent, combined. Not fair. As we work to get other countries to pay their fair share abroad, we will continue our rebuilding at home. We're rebuilding everything, including, by the way, our great military. We will have the finest military that we've ever had at any time in the history of our country. (Applause.)

Last week, my economic team outlined one of the biggest tax cuts in American history -- even bigger than that of Ronald Reagan. We are proposing major tax relief for the middle class, and lowering the business tax from 35 percent all the way down to 15 percent. (Applause.) Now, you will see companies expand, companies come back into our country, companies not leave our country anymore because taxes and regulations are so onerous. You will see what happens.

Let me also be very clear in saying that we are going to save Americans' healthcare, and repeal and replace that disaster known as Obamacare, which is dying, dying, dying. (Applause.) Obamacare is dead anyway, folks. You know, they always like to compare -- well, what about Obama -- Obamacare is dead. It's gone. The increases were massive last year, and they're going to be bigger this year. And the insurance companies are fleeing. One of the top people in the insurance industry said, Obamacare is in a death spiral, there's nothing they can do.

So they can't compare something to it because it won't be there very long, believe me. Can't be there very long. It's not working. It's been a failure. Under Obamacare, we have seen double- and triple-digit hikes in premiums, and many Americans left with only a single insurer to choose from. And now, many of those insurers are fleeing also. You have places like the great state of Tennessee, where I left two weeks ago, where half of the state already has no insurance carrier. And many others.

So Obamacare is a catastrophe created exclusively by the Democrats in Congress. And they know it's no good. They know it's not working. And, by the way, we're going to get something great. We're going to get the premiums down. We're going to get the deductibles way down. We're going to take care of every single need you're going to want to have taken care of. But it's not going to cost that kind of money. We're going to bring it down. You're going to see it. Premiums down. We will repeal and replace Obamacare. You watch. (Applause.)

We're going to give Americans the freedom to purchase the healthcare plans they want, not the healthcare forced on them by the government. (Applause.) And I'll be so angry at Congressman Kelly and Congressman Marino and all of our congressmen in this room if we don't get that damn thing passed quickly. (Applause.) They'll get it done. We know them. They'll get it done.

In all things, we are returning power to the people where it belongs. We're going to defend the Second Amendment -- (applause) -- and your right to keep and bear arms. We are going to bring education local, and we are going to end Common Core. (Applause.) We are going to stop federal overreach, and defend the God-given rights of every American family.

Just imagine what we could accomplish if we all started working together to rebuild this nation, the nation that we so dearly love. (Applause.) Our jobs will come back home, our dying factories will come roaring back to life. It will be a beautiful thing to watch. And this is what's going to happen in the United States of America, and it's going to happen soon. And it's actually already happening. (Applause.)

Cities small and large will see a rebirth of hope, safety and opportunity. America's children will be taught to love their country and take pride in our great American flag. (Applause.) And other countries -- and you see that happening -- will finally treat America, and our citizens, with the respect that our country and our citizens deserve. (Applause.)

It's time for us all to remember that we are one people, with one great American destiny, and that whether we are black or brown or white, we all bleed the same red blood of patriots. (Applause.) And we all share the same glorious freedoms of our magnificent country. We are all made by the same Almighty God. (Applause.)

As long as we remember these truths, we will not fail. We will never fail. We are Americans, and the future belongs to us. The future belongs to all of you. So with hope in our souls, and patriotism in our hearts, I say these words to you tonight, on 100 days of devotion, hard work, and love for our great country: Together, we will make America strong again. We will make America wealthy again. We will make America prosper again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again!

Thank you. God bless you. (Applause.)

Hello, everybody. Well, thank you very much. And good afternoon.

As President, my highest and most solemn duty is the defense of our nation and its citizens.

Last night, at my direction, the United States military successfully executed a flawless precision strike that killed the number-one terrorist anywhere in the world, Qasem Soleimani.

Soleimani was plotting imminent and sinister attacks on American diplomats and military personnel, but we caught him in the act and terminated him.

Under my leadership, America's policy is unambiguous: To terrorists who harm or intend to harm any American, we will find you; we will eliminate you. We will always protect our diplomats, service members, all Americans, and our allies.

For years, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and its ruthless Quds Force — under Soleimani's leadership — has targeted, injured, and murdered hundreds of American civilians and servicemen.

The recent attacks on US targets in Iraq, including rocket strikes that killed an American and injured four American servicemen very badly, as well as a violent assault on our embassy in Baghdad, were carried out at the direction of Soleimani.

Soleimani made the death of innocent people his sick passion, contributing to terrorist plots as far away as New Delhi and London.

Today we remember and honor the victims of Soleimani's many atrocities, and we take comfort in knowing that his reign of terror is over.

Soleimani has been perpetrating acts of terror to destabilize the Middle East for the last 20 years. What the United States did yesterday should have been done long ago. A lot of lives would have been saved.

Just recently, Soleimani led the brutal repression of protestors in Iran, where more than a thousand innocent civilians were tortured and killed by their own government.

We took action last night to stop a war. We did not take action to start a war.

I have deep respect for the Iranian people. They are a remarkable people, with an incredible heritage and unlimited potential. We do not seek regime change. However, the Iranian regime's aggression in the region, including the use of proxy fighters to destabilize its neighbors, must end, and it must end now.

The future belongs to the people of Iran — those who seek peaceful coexistence and cooperation — not the terrorist warlords who plunder their nation to finance bloodshed abroad.

The United States has the best military by far, anywhere in the world. We have best intelligence in the world. If Americans anywhere are threatened, we have all of those targets already fully identified, and I am ready and prepared to take whatever action is necessary. And that, in particular, refers to Iran.

Under my leadership, we have destroyed the ISIS territorial caliphate, and recently, American Special Operations Forces killed the terrorist leader known as al-Baghdadi. The world is a safer place without these monsters.

America will always pursue the interests of good people, great people, great souls, while seeking peace, harmony, and friendship with all of the nations of the world.

Thank you. God bless you. God bless our great military. And God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much. Thank you.

Thank you, Klaus, very much. It's a privilege to be here at this forum where leaders in business, science, art, diplomacy, and world affairs have gathered for many, many years to discuss how we can advance prosperity, security, and peace.

I'm here today to represent the interests of the American people and to affirm America's friendship and partnership in building a better world.

Like all nations represented at this great forum, America hopes for a future in which everyone can prosper, and every child can grow up free from violence, poverty, and fear.

Over the past year, we have made extraordinary strides in the U.S. We're lifting up forgotten communities, creating exciting new opportunities, and helping every American find their path to the American Dream—the dream of a great job, a safe home, and a better life for their children.

After years of stagnation, the United States is once again experiencing strong economic growth. The stock market is smashing one record after another, and has added more than $7 trillion in new wealth since my election. Consumer confidence, business confidence, and manufacturing confidence are the highest they have been in many decades.

Since my election, we've created 2.4 million jobs, and that number is going up very, very substantially. Small-business optimism is at an all-time high. New unemployment claims are near the lowest we've seen in almost half a century. African American unemployment has reached the lowest rate ever recorded in the United States, and so has unemployment among Hispanic Americans.

The world is witnessing the resurgence of a strong and prosperous America. I'm here to deliver a simple message: There has never been a better time to hire, to build, to invest, and to grow in the United States. America is open for business, and we are competitive once again.

The American economy is by far the largest in the world, and we've just enacted the most significant tax cuts and reform in American history. We've massively cut taxes for the middle class and small businesses to let working families keep more of their hard-earned money. We lowered our corporate tax rate from 35 percent, all the way down to 21 percent. As a result, millions of workers have received tax cut bonuses from their employers in amounts as large as $3,000.

The tax cut bill is expected to raise the average American's household income by more than $4,000. The world's largest company, Apple, announced plans to bring $245 billion in overseas profits home to America. Their total investment into the United States economy will be more than $350 billion over the next five years.

Now is the perfect time to bring your business, your jobs, and your investments to the United States. This is especially true because we have undertaken the most extensive regulatory reduction ever conceived. Regulation is stealth taxation. The U.S., like many other countries, unelected bureaucrats—and we have—believe me, we have them all over the place—and they've imposed crushing and anti-business and anti-worker regulations on our citizens with no vote, no legislative debate, and no real accountability.

In America, those days are over. I pledged to eliminate two unnecessary regulations for every one new regulation. We have succeeded beyond our highest expectations. Instead of 2 for 1, we have cut 22 burdensome regulations for every 1 new rule. We are freeing our businesses and workers so they can thrive and flourish as never before. We are creating an environment that attracts capital, invites investment, and rewards production.

America is the place to do business. So come to America, where you can innovate, create, and build. I believe in America. As President of the United States, I will always put America first, just like the leaders of other countries should put their country first also.

But America first does not mean America alone. When the United States grows, so does the world. American prosperity has created countless jobs all around the globe, and the drive for excellence, creativity, and innovation in the U.S. has led to important discoveries that help people everywhere live more prosperous and far healthier lives.

As the United States pursues domestic reforms to unleash jobs and growth, we are also working to reform the international trading system so that it promotes broadly shared prosperity and rewards to those who play by the rules.

We cannot have free and open trade if some countries exploit the system at the expense of others. We support free trade, but it needs to be fair and it needs to be reciprocal. Because, in the end, unfair trade undermines us all.

The United States will no longer turn a blind eye to unfair economic practices, including massive intellectual property theft, industrial subsidies, and pervasive state-led economic planning. These and other predatory behaviors are distorting the global markets and harming businesses and workers, not just in the U.S., but around the globe.

Just like we expect the leaders of other countries to protect their interests, as President of the United States, I will always protect the interests of our country, our companies, and our workers.

We will enforce our trade laws and restore integrity to our trading system. Only by insisting on fair and reciprocal trade can we create a system that works not just for the U.S. but for all nations.

As I have said, the United States is prepared to negotiate mutually beneficial, bilateral trade agreements with all countries. This will include the countries in TPP, which are very important. We have agreements with several of them already. We would consider negotiating with the rest, either individually, or perhaps as a group, if it is in the interests of all.

My administration is also taking swift action in other ways to restore American confidence and independence. We are lifting self-imposed restrictions on energy production to provide affordable power to our citizens and businesses, and to promote energy security for our friends all around the world. No country should be held hostage to a single provider of energy.

America is roaring back, and now is the time to invest in the future of America. We have dramatically cut taxes to make America competitive. We are eliminating burdensome regulations at a record pace. We are reforming the bureaucracy to make it lean, responsive, and accountable. And we are ensuring our laws are enforced fairly.

We have the best colleges and universities in the world, and we have the best workers in the world. Energy is abundant and affordable. There has never been a better time to come to America.

We are also making historic investments in the American military because we cannot have prosperity without security. To make the world safer from rogue regimes, terrorism, and revisionist powers, we are asking our friends and allies to invest in their own defenses and to meet their financial obligations. Our common security requires everyone to contribute their fair share.

My administration is proud to have led historic efforts, at the United Nations Security Council and all around the world, to unite all civilized nations in our campaign of maximum pressure to de-nuke the Korean Peninsula. We continue to call on partners to confront Iran's support for terrorists and block Iran's path to a nuclear weapon.

We're also working with allies and partners to destroy jihadist terrorist organizations such as ISIS, and very successfully so. The United States is leading a very broad coalition to deny terrorists control of their territory and populations, to cut off their funding, and to discredit their wicked ideology.

I am pleased to report that the coalition to defeat ISIS has retaken almost 100 percent of the territory once held by these killers in Iraq and Syria. There is still more fighting and work to be done and to consolidate our gains. We are committed to ensuring that Afghanistan never again becomes a safe haven for terrorists who want to commit mass murder to our civilian populations. I want to thank those nations represented here today that have joined in these crucial efforts. You are not just securing your own citizens, but saving lives and restoring hope for millions and millions of people.

When it comes to terrorism, we will do whatever is necessary to protect our nation. We will defend our citizens and our borders. We are also securing our immigration system, as a matter of both national and economic security.

America is a cutting-edge economy, but our immigration system is stuck in the past. We must replace our current system of extended-family chain migration with a merit-based system of admissions that selects new arrivals based on their ability to contribute to our economy, to support themselves financially, and to strengthen our country.

In rebuilding America, we are also fully committed to developing our workforce. We are lifting people from dependence to independence, because we know the single best anti-poverty program is a very simple and very beautiful paycheck.

To be successful, it is not enough to invest in our economy. We must invest in our people. When people are forgotten, the world becomes fractured.  Only by hearing and responding to the voices of the forgotten can we create a bright future that is truly shared by all.

The nation's greatness is more than the sum of its production. A nation's greatness is the sum of its citizens: the values, pride, love, devotion, and character of the people who call that nation home.

From my first international G7 Summit, to the G20, to the U.N. General Assembly, to APEC, to the World Trade Organization, and today at the World Economic Forum, my administration has not only been present, but has driven our message that we are all stronger when free, sovereign nations cooperate toward shared goals and they cooperate toward shared dreams.

Represented in this room are some of the remarkable citizens from all over the world. You are national leaders, business titans, industry giants, and many of the brightest minds in many fields.

Each of you has the power to change hearts, transform lives, and shape your countries' destinies. With this power comes an obligation, however —a duty of loyalty to the people, workers, and customers who have made you who you are.

So together, let us resolve to use our power, our resources, and our voices, not just for ourselves, but for our people —to lift their burdens, to raise their hopes, and to empower their dreams; to protect their families, their communities, their histories, and their futures.

That's what we're doing in America, and the results are totally unmistakable. It's why new businesses and investment are flooding in.  It's why our unemployment rate is the lowest it's been in so many decades. It's why America's future has never been brighter.

Today, I am inviting all of you to become part of this incredible future we are building together.

Thank you to our hosts, thank you to the leaders and innovators in the audience. But most importantly, thank you to all of the hardworking men and women who do their duty each and every day, making this a better world for everyone. Together, let us send our love and our gratitude to make them, because they really make our countries run. They make our countries great.

Thank you, and God bless you all. Thank you very much. (Applause.) Thank you very much.

MR. SCHWAB: Thank you, Mr. President, for this inspiring speech. As it is tradition at the forum, I will ask you one or two questions.

And my first question is, why is the tax reform —why has it been of such a high priority for your administration?

PRESIDENT TRUMP: Well, first of all, Klaus, I want to congratulate you. This is an incredible group of people. We had dinner last night with about 15 leaders of industry, none of whom I knew, but all of whom I've read about for years. And it was truly an incredible group. But I think I have 15 new friends. So this has been really great what you've done and putting it together, the economic forum.

The tax reform was a dream of a lot of people over many years, but they weren't able to get it done. Many people tried, and Ronald Reagan was really the last to make a meaningful cut and reform. And ours is cutting and reforming. We emphasize cut, but the reform is probably almost as important. We've wanted to do it. It is very tough, politically, to do it. Hard to believe that would be, but it is very, very tough. That's why it hasn't been done in close to 40 years.

And once we got it going, it was going. And the big—and I wouldn't say a total surprise, but one of the big things that happened and took place is AT&T and some others came out very early and they said they were going to pay thousands and thousands of dollars to people that work for their companies. And you have 300,000, 400,000, 500,000 people working for these companies, and all of a sudden it became like a big waterfall, a big, beautiful waterfall where so many companies are doing it. And even today they just announced many more. But every day they announce more and more. And now it's a fight for who's going to give the most. It started at 1,000, and now we have them up to 3,000.

This is something that we didn't anticipate. Oftentimes in business, things happen that you don't anticipate. Usually that's a bad thing, but this was a good thing. This came out of nowhere. Nobody ever thought of this as a possibility even. It wasn't in the equation. We waited—we said, wait until February 1st when the checks start coming in. And people, Klaus, have a lot more money in their paycheck—because it's not just a little money, this is a lot of money for people making a living doing whatever they may be doing.

And we really though February 1st it was going to kick in and everybody was going to be—well, we haven't even gotten there yet and it's kicked in. And it's had an incredible impact on the stock market and the stock prices. We've set 84 records since my election—record stock market prices, meaning we hit new highs 84 different times out of a one-year period. And that's a great thing. And in all fairness, that was done before we passed the tax cuts and tax reform.

So what happened is really something special. Then, as you know, and as I just said, Apple came in with $350 billion. And I tell you, I spoke with Tim Cook; I said, Tim, I will never consider this whole great run that we've made complete until you start building plants in the U.S. And I will tell you, this moved up very substantially. But when I heard 350, I thought he was talking—I thought they were talking $350 million. And, by the way, that's a nice-sized plant. Not the greatest, but not bad. And they said, “No, sir. It's $350 billion.” I said, that is something.

Well, we have tremendous amounts of money, including my newfound friends from last night —great companies. They're all investing. When one of the gentlemen said he's putting in $2 billion because of the tax cuts, I said to myself, “Wow, he's actually the cheap one in the group” —because they're putting in massive numbers of billions of dollars.

So I think you have a brand-new United States. You have a United States where people from all over the world are looking to come in and invest, and there's just nothing like what's happening.

And I just want to finish by —I have a group of people that have been so —I have a whole lot of them, so I won't introduce because then I'll insult at least half of them. But I've had a group of people that worked so hard on this and other things.

And we're really doing —we had a great first year —so successful in so many different ways. And there's a tremendous spirit. When you look at all of the different charts and polls, and you see, as an example, African American unemployment at the historic low—it's never had a period of time like this. Same with Hispanic. Women at a 17-year low. It's very heartwarming to see. But there's a tremendous spirit in the United States. I would say it's a spirit like I have never witnessed before. I've been here for awhile. I have never witnessed the spirit that our country has right now.

So I just want to thank you all, and all those that are pouring billions of dollars into our country, or ten dollars into our country, we thank you very much. Thank you.

MR. SCHWAB: Mr. President, I will ask you, maybe, a personal question. But before doing so, I'd just like to—

PRESIDENT TRUMP: Sounds very interesting.

MR. SCHWAB: —acknowledge that—

PRESIDENT TRUMP: I didn't know about this one.

MR. SCHWAB: I would like to acknowledge the strong presence of your Cabinet members

PRESIDENT TRUMP: Yes.

MR. SCHWAB: —who tremendously contributed to the discussions the last (inaudible).

PRESIDENT TRUMP: Good, I would like to do that. That's very nice.

MR. SCHWAB: Yeah. Now—

PRESIDENT TRUMP: Steven, Wilbur, Gary, Robert, even my General and my various other generals, you know. We're making our military protection a little bit better for us too. So thank you very much. Does everybody understand that? I think so. Thank you all for being here.

MR. SCHWAB: Now my, maybe personal, question would be: What experience from your past have been most useful in preparing you for the presidency?

PRESIDENT TRUMP: Well, being a businessman has been a great experience for me. I've loved it. I've always loved business. I've always been good at building things, and I've always been successful at making money. I'd buy things that would fail—that would be failures—and I'd turn them around and try and get them for the right price, and then I'd turn them around and make them successful. And I've been good at it. And that takes a certain ability.

And, you know, historically, I guess, there's never really been a businessman or businessperson elected president. It's always been a general or a politician. Throughout history, it's always been a general —you had to be a general —but mostly it was politicians. You never have a businessman.

And then, in all fairness, I was saying to Klaus last night: Had the opposing party to me won—some of whom you backed, some of the people in the room—instead of being up almost 50 percent—the stock market is up since my election almost 50 percent—rather than that, I believe the stock market from that level, the initial level, would have been down close to 50 percent. That's where we were heading. I really believe that—because they were going to put on massive new regulations. You couldn't breathe. It was choking our country to death. And I was able to see that, Klaus, as a businessperson.

The other thing is, I've always seemed to get, for whatever reason, a disproportionate amount of press or media. (Laughter.) Throughout my whole life—somebody will explain someday why—but I've always gotten a lot. (Laughter.) And as businessman I was always treated really well by the press. The numbers speak and things happen, but I've always really had a very good press. And it wasn't until I became a politician that I realized how nasty, how mean, how vicious, and how fake the press can be. As the cameras start going off in the background. (Laughter.)

But overall—I mean, the bottom line—somebody said, well, they couldn't have been that bad because here we are—we're president. And I think we're doing a really great job with my team. I have a team of just tremendous people, and I think we're doing a very special job. And I really believe it was time, and it was time to do that job, because I don't think the United States would have done very well if it went through four or eight more years of regulation and, really, a very anti-business group of people.

We have a very pro-business group. We have regulations cut to a level—in the history of our country, Klaus—this was reported recently. In one year we've cut more regulations in my administration than any other administration in four, eight, or sixteen years, in the one case. We've cut more regulations in one year, and we have a ways to go. I mean, we're probably 50 percent done.

And we're going to have regulation. There's nothing wrong with rules and regulations; you need them. But we've cut more than any administration ever in the history of our country, and we still have a ways to go. So I think between that and the tremendous tax cuts, we've really done something.

And one other thing I said—and I saw it last night with some of the leaders and the businesspeople—I think I've been a cheerleader for our country, and everybody representing a company or a country has to be a cheerleader, or no matter what you do, it's just not going to work. And the reason I'm a cheerleader is because it's easy—because I love our country and I think we're just doing really well.

And we look forward to seeing you in America—special place—and where you are is a special place also.

Thank you, Paul and Mitch, for the introduction and for your tremendous leadership. You folks have done well. I just looked at some numbers. You've even done better than you thought, I think—(laughter)—based on what we just saw about 10 minutes ago.

And I want to thank you, to the Governor of this incredible state, my very good friend, Jim Justice and his wonderful wife, Cathy, who are with us. And Jim is now a proud member of the Republican Party. He was a Democrat. He switched over, right? (Applause.) You don't see that too often. Maybe we'll see it more and more. But thank you, Jim. And the hotel is beautiful, and everything is beautiful. We appreciate it.

It's great to be among so many friends for the second time this week. Tuesday was an incredible evening, as we were all inspired. (Applause.) And I really mean that. We were inspired by America's heroes and uplifted by everyone who has sacrificed in the fight for freedom. They were, and are, incredible people that we saw that night, and tremendous courage. And one of the people, I have to say—boy, you got a very big hand, Steve. Steve Scalise. A great hand. (Applause.)

And we're all truly blessed to be Americans.

Before going any further, I want to send our prayers to everyone affected by the train accident yesterday, and especially to the family of the person who was so tragically killed. Our thoughts are with the victims and their loved ones. And thank you.

With us today on stage is our incredible leadership team. And they really have—if you look—you just look at what's happened in the last short period of time. Without them, I could have never won the Presidency, I guess. I don't know, could I have won the Presidency without them? (Laughter.) Huh? Steve, yes, right? (Laughter.) I don't know.

But they've become very good friends, and we're now in battle together and in friendship together. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. (Applause.) Thank you, Mitch. Great guy. (Applause.) That was a big win we had, Mitch. Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn. John, thank you. Great job. (Applause.) House Majority Whip Steve Scalise. Again, Steve, thank you. (Applause.) House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy. Kevin. (Applause.) Chair John Thune and House Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers. (Applause.)

Did they forget your name, John? I don't know. What's going on here? (Laughter.) John Cornyn, everybody knows. They didn't put his name up, but that's okay. That's the first time that's ever happened. Hey, John, that will never happen again. (Laughter.)

Working together, we've accomplished extraordinary things for the American people over the last year, and I really believe this is just the beginning. You know, Paul Ryan called me the other day, and I don't know if I'm supposed to say this, but I will say that he said to me, he has never, ever seen the Republican Party so united, so much in like with each other. But, literally, the word “united” was the word he used. It's the most united he's ever seen the party, and I see it too. I have so many friends in this group, and there is a great coming together that I don't think either party has seen for many, many years. So—right?

SPEAKER RYAN: Yep.

THE PRESIDENT: That's good. (Applause.) I was hoping he wouldn't deny that. (Laughter.) But he did—he called me, and I thought it was very nice. So thank you, Paul, very much.

Every day, we're removing government burdens and empowering our citizens to follow their hearts and live out their dreams. The priorities of Republicans in Congress are the priorities of the American people. We believe in strong families, and we believe in strong borders. (Applause.)

We believe in the rule of law, and we support the men and women of law enforcement. (Applause.)

We believe every American has the right to grow up in a safe home and attend a good school and to have access to a really great job.

And we know that, for Americans, nothing—absolutely nothing—is out of reach because we don't know the meaning of the word “quit.” We don't quit. And the Republican Party certainly hasn't quit—because if we did, we wouldn't be here today. We'd be sitting home saying, “Boy, that was a tough year,” instead of, “That was one of the greatest years in the history of politics, in the history of our country for a party—what we've done and what we've accomplished.” I don't think it's been done, and certainly not by much. We had a year that was almost, I would think, unlike any.

It was a tremendous success, and I give everybody in this room the credit. And I give, certainly, these people behind me tremendous credit for what took place, especially in that last month. That was a month of tremendous pressure, and that was people that were able to act under pressure. My favorite type of person. They were able to act under tremendous pressure.

So I just want to thank you all, because that's what it was all about. And, you know, it was interesting—while we had a great year, we weren't being given credit for it—regulations at a level that nobody has ever done. In one year, we knocked out more regulations than anybody. Supreme Court justice, judges, all over. So many different records. So many successes.

But when we got the great tax cut bill—and we call it the Tax Cut and Jobs Bill—we got that, it was like putting it all in a box and wrapping it with a beautiful ribbon. We started getting credit not only for that, but for all of the other things that we did during the year. It's amazing the way that happened. I was surprised, actually.

But we got a lot of credit from a lot of people. And all of a sudden, they're saying, “While we had a lot of accomplishment”—and then they went on to do the thing. But the fact is—(laughter)—you understand that. But we really did. We got a lot of credit. It all came together in that final month. And so I give everybody in this room, really, kudos.

We're a nation of builders and dreamers and strivers and fighters. And together, we're building a safe, strong, and very proud America, already, since the election. We've created 2.4 million jobs. That's unthinkable. (Applause.) And that doesn't include all of the things that are happening. You're going to see numbers that get even better.

The stock market has added more than $8 trillion in new wealth. Unemployment claims are at a 45-year low, which is something. After years of wage stagnation, we are finally seeing rising wages. African American and Hispanic unemployment have both reached the lowest levels ever recorded. That's something very, very special. (Applause.)

And when I made that statement the other night, there was zero movement from the Democrats. They sat there, stone cold, no smile, no applause. You would have thought that, on that one, they would have, sort of, at least clapped a little bit. Which tells you, perhaps, they'd rather see us not do well than see our country do great. And that's not good. That's not good. We have to change that. (Applause.)

And as I said, we've eliminated more regulations in our first year than any administration has ever eliminated. And that means four years, eight years, or, in one instance, sixteen years. In one year, we've knocked out more regulations. It's an amazing thing. And I happen to think that that is every bit as important toward our success as the tax cuts.

I have many business friends and many people in business that came to me and they say that—including small businesses—they say the fact that they no longer have to go through years of turmoil in getting approved and getting approvals, and getting rule changes and getting all sorts of things, and getting old while they're waiting to get them—the fact that all of that is gone is probably as important or even more important to the massive tax cuts we've gotten people. So that's something.

We've signed into law the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history. And I have to say, included in there is the individual mandate. We repealed it. That's a big one. (Applause.) That's so big. By itself, that would be a big achievement. And we, sort of, take it as, well, that was included.

And ANWR, one of the great potential fields anywhere in the world. (Applause.) And I never appreciated ANWR so much. A friend of mine called up, who's in that world and in that business, and said, “Is it true that you're thinking about ANWR?” I said, “Yeah, I think we're going to get it, but you know.” He said, “Are you kidding? That's the biggest thing, by itself.” He said, “Ronald Reagan and every President has wanted to get ANWR approved.”

And after that, I said, “Oh, make sure that's in the bill.” (Laughter.) It was amazing how that had an impact. That had a very big impact on me, Paul. I really didn't care about it, and then when I heard that everybody wanted it—for 40 years, they've been trying to get it approved, and I said, “Make sure you don't lose ANWR.” (Laughter.)

But it's great for the people of Alaska. And Senator Sullivan and Senator Murkowski are here someplace. Where are they? But they are very happy campers. Senator? (Applause.) Good, Senator. Thank you. They worked very—

LEADER RYAN: And Don Young.

THE PRESIDENT: Where's Don Young? He's such a quiet guy. Where Is Don? (Laughter.) Don Young, also. Don, thank you.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Inaudible) all along.

THE PRESIDENT: So—no, we were always going to get it. We never had a problem with it. But if you think about, that by itself is a big bill. The individual mandate by itself is a big, powerful bill. That was just added on to what we did with the massive tax cuts.

I want to thank Senate Finance Chairman—and a very spectacular man—Orrin Hatch. (Applause.) Where's Orrin? Orrin. Orrin is—I love listening to him speak. He said once, I am the single greatest President in his lifetime. Now, he's a young man, so it's not that much, but—(laughter). And he actually once said I'm the greatest President in the history of our country. And I said, “Does that include Lincoln and Washington?” He said, “Yes.” I said, “I love this guy.” (Laughter.) I love him. But he is, he's a special guy.

And House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady for their incredible work. (Applause.) Kevin? Where are you, Kevin? That's—what a job. I'd call Kevin night after night. “Kevin, what about this? What about that?” You were always there. He was working. What did you average sleep for about four weeks? About—maybe nothing? I think he had no average. But you did a great job. Nobody knows it better than you, Kevin. Thank you.

Maybe we'll do a phase two, I don't know. We'll do a phase two. Are you ready for that, Kevin? Huh? I think you're ready. (Laughter.) We'll get them even lower. But we are proud of you.

Here in West Virginia, as a result of our tax cuts, the typical family of four will save roughly $2,000 a year. To lower tax rates for hardworking Americans, we nearly doubled the standard deduction for everyone. Now, the first $24,000 earned by a married couple is completely tax-free. And when I came into this beautiful building just a little while ago, one of the people said, “You know, I just got a check, and I have $221 more than I had last year at this time in my envelope.” (Applause.)

And that one—really, that's what we were waiting. We were waiting for February, and then we got hit with these corporations giving tremendous bonuses to everybody that Nancy Pelosi called “crumbs.” That was a bad—that could be like “deplorable.” Does that make sense? “Deplorable” and “crumbs”—those two words, they seem to have a resemblance. I hope it has the same meaning. But she called it crumbs, when people are getting $2,000 and $3,000 and $1,000. That's not crumbs. That's a lot of money.

We also doubled the child tax credit, and that's so helpful to so many. We've gone from one of the highest business tax rates anywhere in the world, to one of the most competitive—one of the lower ones—so that our great workers and companies can compete and win against anyone.

We've now given them the tools to go out and win. And that's what they're doing. And they're also pouring back. A lot of you folks, you saw Davos the other day, they're coming back. I believe I brought hundreds of billions of dollars with me back from Europe, back from Switzerland, when I went there the other day to make a speech. They're so excited about this country and what's happening here. And they would never, ever have come.

In fact, if the opposing party had won the election, you would have had tremendous new rules and regulations put on everything, and other things would have happened. And instead of going up almost 50 percent, your stock market, in my opinion, would have gone down 50 percent—I really believe that—because they were stifling it. They were getting prepared to stifle even worse than it was.

The changes to our business tax alone are expected to raise average household income by $4,000. Roughly 3 million workers have already received tax cut bonuses and raises totaling thousands and thousands of dollars per worker—and that's just over the past six weeks alone.

Because of our tax cuts, Apple is investing $350 billion in the United States. They're bringing $240 billion back—$240 billion. They're going to pay a tax of $38 billion, Mitch—$38 billion. But they're going to invest a total of $350 billion. And when I first heard the number, I said, “You don't mean billion, you mean $350 million.” Because I've been saying to Tim Cook, “Tim, we got to build plants here.” You know, for $350 million, you could build a beautiful plant. But for $350 billion, they're going to build a lot of plants. And this would have never happened without us and the work you've done. And they're hiring 20,000 workers, by the way. (Applause.)

And two days ago, ExxonMobil, in addition to many others, just announced that they are investing $50 billion in the United States. So the good news just keeps on rolling in, and it's going to.

And I want to thank Senator Tim Scott for “opportunity zones.” Our tax plan encourages this investment. Where is Tim? What a good guy Tim is. (Applause.) Tim. See him over there someplace? Thank you, Tim. But we're investing in distressed communities to create more jobs for those who have too often been left behind. And Tim worked hard on that.

We want every American to know the dignity of work, the pride of a paycheck, and the satisfaction of a job really well done. And we're reaching our hand all across the aisle in pursuit of common ground and commonsense reforms for the good of all Americans. All Americans.

We can reform our prison system to help those who have served their time get a second chance at life. And I've watched this, and I've seen it, and I've studied it. And people get out of prison, and they made a mistake. And not all—some are very bad, but many are very good. And they come home and they can't get a job. It's sad. They can't—there's—they can't get a job.

Now, the best thing we've done to fix that, Paul, is the fact that the economy is just booming. I mean, that fixes it better than any program we can do, anything we can do at all. But the economy is so strong now and so good, and so many companies are moving in that I really believe that problem—it's a big problem—is going to solve itself. But we're working on it.

We can invest in workforce development, job training, and open new vocational schools, because we want every American to be able to reach their full God-given potential. Vocational schools—today you have community colleges and you have all of the—when I was growing up, we had vocational schools.

And when I was going to school, I remember I was in high school, and there were people in class—one person in particular, he wasn't, like, the greatest student. And—he just wasn't. And yet, I saw him one day, and he was able to fix a car engine, blindfolded. And everybody else was saying that's amazing how talented he is. He had a different kind of a talent. And we should have vocational schools. You learn mechanical, you learn bricklaying and carpentry, and all of these things. We don't have that very much anymore.

And I think the word “vocational” is a much better word than, in many cases, a community college. A lot of people don't know what a community college means or represents. So we're working very hard on vocational schools so that when all these companies move into this country, we're going to have a workforce that knows exactly what they're doing.

In addition to that, when they move in, we're giving them incentives to also train people themselves. Because, in many ways, that's the best way to do it. In Wisconsin, we have a great company moving in. They make all of the Apple iPhones, and they're going to have a big program. They're going to have a tremendous program to teach people how to do this, because it's a whole new skill. And it will be very successful.

We can reduce the price of prescription drugs and ensure that terminally ill patients have a right to try. (Applause.) So important—right to try. You know, those drugs, they sit in there for 12, 13, 14 years. And a person is terminally ill, they have two months left, and under the old system they don't want to give them even an experimental medicine because they're afraid they're going to be hurt. Well, they're not going to be around for two months.

So they'll sign a waiver, and we're going to give them the hope of finding something. You have people—and I've known people like this—they travel all over the world to try and find a cure. And we have great experimental drugs, but it will be years before they come on to the market.

So it's called Right to Try, and I hope you folks can approve it, and I hope you agree with it. But I think it's so important. It's so important. (Applause.) And Scott Gottlieb is heading it up. And it's—and the other thing you get is you learn pretty quickly how effective it is; does it work. But you learn it really, very quickly. So, Right to Try.

We can fix bad trade deals and negotiate new ones that are fair. And the most important word to me, on trade, is “reciprocal.” Because we have deals where companies will send in a motorbike, and we charge them nothing. But when we send a Harley-Davidson or a motorbike to those countries, they charge us 100 percent tax. That's not fair. So they'll send their motorbikes, or something, into us—zero. We send it to them—100 percent. That's not fair trade. That's not fair.

So I like the word “reciprocal.” If they're going to do it to us, we're going to do it to them. And what's going to happen is your numbers are going to either come down, or we're going to make a lot of money. And either one is okay, as far as I'm concerned.

We can rebuild our crumbling infrastructure, and we will; streamline the horrible approval process—roadways that take 12, 13, 14 years to get approved. We used to build them in three months, and now it takes years and years of approvals. We're going to bring that down, ideally, to one year. Two years is our goal, but one year is our real goal. And we can get it done under budget, and we want to get it done ahead of schedule. Because you don't have too many of them. Under budget and ahead of schedule.

We can deliver for our police, our veterans, and our brave servicemembers. And finally, after decades of waiting, we can finally pass immigration reform that protects our country, defends our borders, and modernizes our immigration rules to serve the needs of American workers and of American families. So important.

One of the strengths of the Republican Party is that we're a big tent with many diverse views, but the one thing we can all agree on—and that's that, in every decision, we make our highest priority to serve and to protect the American people.

We want an immigration policy that's fair, equitable, but that's going to protect our people. We want people coming into our country based on merit and based on the fact that they are going to love our country, and they respect our people and our country. We don't want visa lottery. Pick a lottery ticket. Pick a lottery. We don't want that. So we want it based on merit. (Applause.)

We have a chance now to pass into law the immigration reforms that the American people have been demanding for decades and that many of you have been working on for your entire careers. We have a great opportunity as a Republican Party. As the Republican Party, we have a great opportunity. We're getting very little help from the Democrats, but I hope after I leave this room, we're going to get a call from these people saying, “Let's go.”

You know, they talk a good game. We have to get help from the other side, or we have to elect many more Republicans. That's another way of doing it. (Applause.) Really, that's another way of doing it. And based on the numbers we just saw, we have a real chance of doing that. You know, '18 is going to be very interesting. But we've got to do one or the other. Either they're going to have to come on board—because they talk a good game with DACA, but they don't produce.

And so either they come on board, or we're just going to have to really work and we're going to have to get more people so we can get the kind of numbers that we need to pass, in a much easier fashion, legislation. And to get it done, we'll all have to make some compromises along the way—to get it done this way. Now, to get it done the other way, if we win more, we don't have to compromise so much. Okay? With the tax bill, we got what we wanted because we had, essentially, a unanimous vote.

But we have to go, and we have to get it done and get it done properly, and we're going to have to compromise—unless we elect more Republicans, in which case, we can have it just the way everybody in this room wants it. We have to be willing to give a little in order for our country to gain a whole lot.

If we're united, if we work together for the good of the nation, and we can fulfill our sacred duty to the country and to our incredible voters, we have really fulfilled a solemn promise.

As you know, I have put forward an immigration framework based on many months of meeting and working with Tom Cotton, and working with John Cornyn, who was in the office the other day, and David Perdue—incredible people—and Bob Goodlatte, who's out here someplace. Really incredible people. And it's a strong bill, but it's a very fair bill. And it protects our border. We have to protect our borders. (Applause.)

It includes reforms that are overwhelmingly popular with the voters, including Democrats. The Democrats want to have—the real Democrats, they want to have their borders protected. But it includes Democrats, independents, Republicans. Americans want an immigration system that works for everybody. And they want safety.

And, by the way, they also want a strong military. And we have to be very powerful on our military. You know, our military has been depleted over the last long period of time, even beyond Obama. It's been depleted. We've got to build up. This should not be a party thing; this should be common sense. Without our military, we might not be here talking. We have to have a strong military.

And I think we're very much on our way. From the one standpoint, we're going for funding, which we need, and I think we'll get it. But we have a lot of fighting on that from the other side, and we can't even think about it. We need a strong and powerful military. And we're going to have far more powerful than we were ever before. (Applause.)

Nearly 7 in 10 Americans support an immigration reform package that includes a permanent solution on DACA. And I've been hearing about DACA for so many years. Some people call it DREAMers. It's not DREAMers. Don't fall into that trap. It's just much different than DREAMers. And I said the other night, you know, we have dreamers too. We have dreamers in this country, too. You can't forget our dreamers. I have a lot of dreamers here. (Applause.)

But DACA—we want to take care of DACA, and I hope we will. We need the support of the Democrats in order to do it, and they might not want to do it. They talk like they do, but I don't think they do. But we're going to find out very soon.

We want something that is very, very tough and strong, in terms of the border. We need to end chain migration, and we need to cancel the terrible visa lottery. (Applause.)

And those are the four pillars that I talked about the other night. We call them the White House framework—a plan that will finally bring our immigration system into the 21st Century.

The Republican position on immigration is the center, mainstream view of the American people, with some extra strength at the border and security at the border added in. What we're asking for and what the American people are pleading for is sanity and common sense in our immigration system. We want immigration rules that protect our communities, defend our security, and admit people who will love our country and contribute to our society.

I know that the Senate is planning to bring an immigration bill on the floor, to the floor, in coming weeks. And I'm asking that the framework we submitted—with great flexibility, great flexibility, working with both parties—that something very positive will come out of it for our country, for everybody—for our country. And I think that can happen.

If the Democrats choose to filibuster a framework that includes a generous path to citizenship or something that is not fair, we are not going to approve it. We're just not going to approve it.

So we'll either have something that's fair and equitable and good and secure, or we're going to have nothing at all. And this has been going on for many years. It doesn't make sense, however, to have nothing at all, because this is something that people want.

So we will be demonstrating that we are very, very serious. One of the reasons I gave a number that was, I thought, a very generous number was because I wanted to see whether or not they were interested in approving that. Because if they don't approve something within that sphere, that means, very simply, that they're not looking to approve it at all. They want to use it for an election issue, but it's now an election issue that will go to our benefit, not their benefit. (Applause.)

But make no mistake: I will not rest until we have delivered for the citizens of our great country so many different things—immigration, the strong military. We've done an awfully good job of protecting our Second Amendment. That was in question during the campaign, you remember, and we have done a very, very good job. (Applause.)

For the last 12 months, I have kept one promise after another, and we're just getting started. So often I'll see—and I must say, six, seven months ago, they were saying, he didn't fulfill his promise on this or that. I said, I've only been here for four months. You know, other people were there for eight years and they would finally get something passed. I was there four months—you know this, Paul—and they were saying, “He didn't fulfill a promise.”

But now we've fulfilled far more promises than we promised. (Laughter.) And they're having a hard time with that. We have seriously fulfilled promises. I call it “promises plus.” (Laughter.)

And one of the things we're doing that's so important—and Mitch has worked so hard on, and Don, and everybody—is the justices, the judges all over the country. We're filling up the courts with really talented people who understand and read the Constitution for what it says. (Applause.)

So it's really not talked about that much, but it is a tremendous impact. It's having already a tremendous impact. And we have incredible people lined up—just lined up—that are getting ready to go into the courts. And, in many ways, Mitch, I think it's going to be one of the most important things, if not the most important thing, that we're doing.

Defense is always the most. Got to be the most, John, right? But what we're doing with the courts, I think, is going to go down as one of the greatest achievements, so I want to thank you for that. Thank you. (Applause.)

And not only are we protecting America at home, we're protecting our interests abroad. It's time to finally end the dangerous defense sequester. It would be wonderful if we could go back to a budget—(applause)—in order to fully fund our military, and do it properly and order properly, and have it over a period of time, and do it the right way. So at some point, I hope, we're going to be able to do that and it should work.

And in order to defeat terrorists, we're also asking Congress to ensure that we continue to have all necessary power and everything we need to defeat and detain the terrorists. We can't treat terrorists like common criminals; they are really unlawful enemy combatants. (Applause.)

When you see what they do and the way they do it, and the level of ferocity, we can't treat them the way we do the ordinary criminal. And as you saw on Tuesday, I've signed an order keeping open our very secure detention facilities at Guantanamo Bay. (Applause.) It's another promise kept.

And there is one more very important promise we're keeping: No longer are we making apologies for America. We don't apologize anymore. (Applause.) We're proud of our history, we're confident in our values, and we're grateful to our heroes, and we are determined to create a brighter future for all of our people. We are restoring the bonds of love and loyalty that unite us all, as friends, as neighbors, as citizens, as Americans. Because when Americans are united, nothing—nothing at all—nothing can stop us. We win. (Applause.)

As I said the other night, we are a nation that built the Empire State Building in one year. Actually, to be exact, it was—we built it in less than a year. Would you believe it? Working 24 hours around the clock.

We built the Hoover Dam in record time. We built the Golden Gate Bridge. We linked our nation together with railroads and highways. We dug out the Panama Canal. We're the nation that won two World Wars, defeated fascism and communism, and put satellites into space and planted our great American flag on the face of the moon. We've healed the sick, cured disease, and cared for the poor like no other nation. We've lifted millions into prosperity, and delivered millions into freedom.

This is our legacy. This is our birthright. And this is the foundation on which we build our very glorious future. Because together, we are, indeed, making America great again.

Thank you, and God bless you all. Thank you very much. (Applause.) Thank you.

Thank you very much, everybody.  Before we begin, I'd like to just say that we have a large team of very talented people in China.  We've had a negotiation going on for about two days.  It's going extremely well.  Who knows what that means, because it only matters if we get it done.  But we're very much working very closely with China and President Xi, who I respect a lot.  Very good relationship that we have.  And we're a lot closer than we ever were in this country with having a real trade deal.

We're covering everything — all of the points that people have been talking about for years that said couldn't be done, whether it was theft or anything.  Anything.  The unfairness.  We've been losing, on average, $375 billion a year with China.  A lot of people think it's $506 billion.  Some people think it's much more than that.  We're going to be leveling the playing field.

The tariffs are hurting China very badly.  They don't want them.  And frankly, if we can make the deal, it'd be my honor to remove them.  But otherwise, we're having many billions of dollars pouring into our Treasury.  We've never had that before with China.  It's been very much of a one-way street.

So, that's happening.  And the relationship with China is very good, but I think they finally respect our country.  They haven't respected us for a long time.  Not for a long time.

The UK and the U.S., as you probably have been seeing and hearing, we're agreeing to go forward and preserve our trade agreement.  You know all of the situation with respect to Brexit, and the complexity and the problems.  But we have a very good trading relationship with the UK, and that's just been strengthened further.

So with the UK, we're continuing our trade, and we are going to actually be increasing it very substantially as time goes by.  We expect that the UK will be very, very substantially increased as it relates to trade with the United States.  The relationship there, also, is very good.

We have a lot of great announcements having to do with Syria and our success with the eradication of the caliphate.  And that will be announced over the next 24 hours.  And many other things.  A lot of positive things are going on.

We're working on a summit.  And you know all about the summit.  It will be in Vietnam — Hanoi.  And we will — we'll be meeting in Hanoi.  We'll be meeting in Hanoi.  I think a lot of you will be going, I suspect.  And I hope we have the same good luck as we had in the first summit.  A lot was done in the first summit.  No more rockets going up.  No more missiles going up.  No more testing of nuclear.  Get back our remains, the remains of our great heroes from the Korean War.  And we got back our hostages.

But we hope we're going to be very much equally as successful.  I'm in no rush for speed.  We just don't want testing.  The sanctions, as you know, remain.  Everything is remaining.  China has been helping us, and Russia has been helping us.  And South Korea, I think you can say, has been — we've been working very closely with South Korea, with Japan.

But China, Russia, on the border, have really been at least partially living up to what they're supposed to be doing.  And that's okay — as per the United Nations.

So we will have a meeting on the 27th and 28th of February, and I think that will be a very successful one.  I look forward to seeing Chairman Kim.  We have also established a very good relationship, which has never happened between him or his family and the United States.  They have really taken advantage of the United States.  Billions of dollars has been paid to them.  And we won't let that happen.

But we think that North Korea and Chairman Kim have a tremendous potential as an economic force, economic power.  Their location between South Korea and then Russia and China — right smack in the middle — is phenomenal.

And we think that they have a great chance for tremendous economic prosperity in the future.  So I look forward to seeing Chairman Kim in Vietnam.

Today, I'm announcing several critical actions that my administration has taken to confront a problem that we have right here at home.  We fight wars that are 6,000 miles away; wars that we should have never been in, in many cases.  But we don't control our own border.

So we're going to confront the national security crisis on our southern border.  And we're going to do it one way or the other — we have to do it — not because it was a campaign promise, which it is.  It was one of many, by the way; not my only one.  We're rebuilding the military, our economy is thriving like never before.

You look at other economies — they're doing terribly, and we're doing phenomenally.  The market is up tremendously today, not that that's anything, but, you know — because I'll go back in and they'll say, “Oh, the market just went down.”  But the market is getting close to the new highs that we created.  We have all the records.  We have every record.  But we're getting close to that point again where we'll create new records.

So our country is doing very well, economically.  And we've done a lot.  But one of the things I said I have to do and I want to do is border security, because we have tremendous amounts of drugs flowing into our country, much of it coming from the southern border.  When you look and when you listen to politicians — in particular, certain Democrats — they say it all comes through the port of entry.  It's wrong.  It's wrong.  It's just a lie.  It's all a lie.

They say walls don't work.  Walls work 100 percent.  Whether it's El Paso — I really was smiling, because the other night I was in El Paso — we had a tremendous crowd, and — tremendous crowd.  And I asked the people — many of whom were from El Paso, but they came from all over Texas.  And I asked them.  I said, “Let me ask you, as a crowd: When the wall went up, was it better?”  You were there, some of you.  It was not only better; it was like 100 percent better.  You know what they did.

But that's only one example.  There are so many examples.  In El Paso, they have close to 2,000 murders right on the other side of the wall.  And they had 23 murders.  It's a lot of murders, but it's not close to 2,000 murders right on the other side of the wall, in Mexico.

So everyone knows that walls work.  And there are better examples than El Paso, frankly.  You just take a look.  Almost everywhere.  Take a look at Israel.  They're building another wall.  Their wall is 99.9 percent effective, they told me — 99.9 percent.  That's what it would be with us, too.

The only weakness is they go to a wall and then they go around the wall.  They go around the wall and in.  Okay?  That's what it is.  It's very simple.  And a big majority of the big drugs — the big drug loads — don't go through ports of entry.  They can't go through ports of entry.  You can't take big loads because you have people — we have some very capable people; the Border Patrol, law enforcement — looking.

You can't take human traffic — women and girls — you can't take them through ports of entry.  You can't have them tied up in the backseat of a car or a truck or a van.  They open the door.  They look.  They can't see three women with tape on their mouth or three women whose hands are tied.

They go through areas where you have no wall.  Everybody knows that.  Nancy knows it.  Chuck knows it.  They all know it.  It's all a big lie.  It's a big con game.

You don't have to be very smart to know: You put up a barrier, the people come in, and that's it.  They can't do anything unless they walk left or right, and they find an area where there's no barrier, and they come into the United States.  Welcome.

We've detained more people.  Our border agents are doing such incredible work.  Our military has been incredible.  We put up barbed wire on top of certain old walls that were there.  We fixed the wall and we loaded it up with barbed wire.  It's very successful.

But our military has been fantastic, and I want to thank them.  And it's very necessary.  We've broken up two caravans that are on their way.  They just are breaking.  They're in the process of breaking up.  We have another one that we haven't been able to break up yet.

We've been actually working with Mexico much better than ever before.  I want to thank the President.  I want to thank Mexico.  They have their own problems.  They have the largest number of murders that they've ever had in their history — almost 40,000 murders.  Forty thousand.  And they got to straighten that out, and I think they will.

But I just want to thank the President, because he's been helping us with these monstrous caravans that have been coming up.  We had one that it was up to over 15,000 people.  It's largely broken up.  Others have gotten through.  And, in Tijuana, you have a lot of people staying there.  If we didn't have the wall up, and if we didn't have the wall secured and strengthened, they would have walked right through; they'd be welcomed to the United States.

One of the things we'd save tremendous — just a tremendous amount on would be sending the military.  If we had a wall, we don't need the military because we'd have a wall.

So I'm going to be signing a national emergency.  And it's been signed many times before.  It's been signed by other Presidents from 1977 or so.  It gave the Presidents the power.

There's rarely been a problem.  They sign it; nobody cares.  I guess they weren't very exciting.  But nobody cares.  They sign it for far less important things, in some cases, in many cases.  We're talking about an invasion of our country with drugs, with human traffickers, with all types of criminals and gangs.

We have some of the greatest people I know.  They've been with me from the beginning of my campaign — almost from the first week.  The Angel Moms.  Unfortunately, we have new Angel Moms.  One incredible woman just showed me her daughter who — we're talking about killed, in the year of '18.  I said, “I haven't seen you before.”  She said, “No, I'm new.”  I said, “That's too bad.”  It's too bad.  It's so sad.

Stand up, just for a second.  Show how beautiful your girl was.  Thank you.

I have such respect for these people.  Angel Moms, Angel Dads, Angel Families.  I have great respect for these people.  These are great people.  These are great people.  They're fighting for their children that have been killed by people that were illegally in this country.

And the press doesn't cover them; they don't want to, incredibly.  And they're not treated the way they should be.  They're fighting for other people because they don't want what happened to their children or husband or anybody.

We have one young lady whose husband — please, stand up.  Your husband was just killed in Maryland.  Incredible man.  Just killed.  Beautiful children — won't be seeing their father again.

These are brave people.  These are people that — they don't have to be here.  They don't have to be doing this.  They're doing it for other people.  So I just want to thank all of you for being here, okay?  I really do.  I want to thank you.  Incredible people.

Last year, 70,000 Americans were killed, at least — I think the number is ridiculously low — by drugs, including meth and heroin and cocaine, fentanyl.  And one of the things that I did with President Xi in China, when I met him in Argentina at a summit — before I even started talking about the trade — it was a trade meeting.  It went very well, but before I talked about trade, I talked about something more important.

I said, “Listen, we have tremendous amounts of fentanyl coming into our country.  It kills tens of thousands of people — I think far more than anybody registers.  And I'd love you to declare it a lethal drug and put it on your criminal list.”  And their criminal list is much tougher than our criminal list.  Their criminal list — a drug dealer gets a thing called the death penalty.  Our criminal list, a drug dealer gets a thing called, “How about a fine?”

And when I asked President Xi, I said, “Do you have a drug problem?”  “No, no, no.”  I said, “You have 1.4 billion people.  What do you mean you have no drug problem?”  “No, we don't have a drug problem.”  I said, “Why?” “Death penalty.  We give death penalty to people that sell drugs.”  End of problem.

What do we do?  We set up blue ribbon committees.  Lovely men and women — they sit around a table, they have lunch, they eat, they dine, and they waste a lot of time.  So if we want to get smart, we can get smart.  You can end the drug problem.  You can end it a lot faster than you think.

But President Xi has agreed to put fentanyl on his list of deadly, deadly drugs.  And it's a criminal penalty.  And the penalty is death.  So that's, frankly, one of the things I'm most excited about in our trade deal, if you want to know the truth.  I think maybe there's no more important point.

We're going to make billions of dollars with this trade deal.  It's going to be great for our country and great for China, I hope.  Their market is down close to 40 percent.  Our market is way up.  We've picked up, since my election, trillions of dollars of worth.  Trillions.  Many trillions.  And China has lost trillions of dollars.  But I want it to be good for China and I want it to be good for the United States.  So we'll see what happens.

China is coming here next week, by the way.  They're coming home, the traders.  And then China is coming here next week.  And then I'll be meeting with President Xi at some point after that to maybe — for some remaining deals.  We'll make them directly, one-on-one, ourselves.

So, we're going to be signing today, and registering, national emergency.  And it's a great thing to do because we have an invasion of drugs, invasion of gangs, invasion of people, and it's unacceptable.

And by signing the national emergency — something signed many times by other Presidents — many, many times.  President Obama — in fact, we may be using one of the national emergencies that he signed, having to do with cartels.  Criminal cartels.  It's a very good emergency that he signed.  And we're going to use parts of it in our dealings on cartels.  So that would be a second national emergency.  But, in that case, it's already in place.

And what we want — really want to do — is simple.  It's not like it's complicated.  It's very simple: We want to stop drugs from coming into our country.  We want to stop criminals and gangs from coming into our country.  Nobody has done the job that we've ever done.  I mean, nobody has done the job that we've done on the border.

And in a way, what I did by creating such a great economy — and if the opposing party got in, this economy would be down the tubes.  You know, I hear a lot of people say, “Oh, well.  But maybe the previous administration…”  Let me tell you, the previous administration, it was heading south, and it was going fast.  We would have been down the tubes.  The regulations were strangling our country.  Unnecessary regulations.

By creating such a strong economy — you just look at your televisions or see what's going on today; it's through the roof.  What happens is more people want to come, so we have far more people trying to get into our country today than probably we've ever had before.  And we've done an incredible job in stopping them, but it's a massive number of people.

If we had the wall, it would be very easy.  We would make up for the cost of the wall just in the cost of the fact that I would be able to have fewer people.  We wouldn't need all of this incredible talent, some of whom are sitting in the first row.  You wouldn't need all of this incredible talent.  We would get — we would get thousands of law enforcement people, including Border Patrol.  You put them in different areas, you have them doing different things.  Law enforcement and Border Patrol.

And I want to thank law enforcement, and I want to thank Border Patrol, and I want to thank ICE.  ICE is abused by the press and by the Democrats.  And, by the way, we're going to be taking care of ICE.  You know, we talk about the new bill.  We're going to be taking care of ICE.  They wanted to get rid of ICE.  And the bill is just the opposite of that.  A lot of good things happened.

So, that's the story.  We want to have a safe country.  I ran on a very simple slogan: “Make America Great Again.”  If you're going to have drugs pouring across the border, if you're going to have human traffickers pouring across the border in areas where we have no protection, in areas where we don't have a barrier, then very hard to make America great again.

But we've done a fantastic job, but we haven't been given the equipment.  We haven't been given the walls.  And in the bill, by the way, they didn't even fight us on most of the stuff.  Ports of entry.  We have so much money, we don't know what to do with it.  I don't know what to do with all the money they're giving us.  It's crazy.

The only place they don't want to give as much money — $1,375,000,000.  Sounds like a lot, but it's not so much, although we're putting it to much better use than it used to be.  A lot of the past administrations, they had — it was easy to get, and they didn't build or they didn't do what they could have done.  It would have been great.  It would have been great to have done it earlier, but I was a little new to the job, a little new to the profession.

And we had a little disappointment for the first year and a half.  People that should have stepped up did not step up.  They didn't step up, and they should have.  Would have been easy.  Not that easy, but it would have been a lot easier.  But some people didn't step up.  But we're stepping up now.

So we have a chance of getting close to $8 billion.  Whether it's $8 billion or $2 billion or $1.5 billion, it's going to build a lot of wall.  We're getting it done.  We're right now in construction with wall in some of the most important areas.  And we have renovated a tremendous amount of wall, making it just as good as new.  That's where a lot of the money has been spent — on renovation.  In fact, we were restricted to renovating, which is okay.  But we're going to run out of areas that we can renovate pretty soon.  So — and we need new wall.

So I want to thank everybody for being here.  I want to thank, in particular, the Angel Moms and Dads for being here.  Thank you very much.  We have great respect for you.  The real country, our real country — the people that really love our country, they love you.  So I just want you to know that.  I know how hard you fight and I know how hard a fight you're having.

I also want to thank all of the law enforcement for the job you do.  Believe me, our country loves you and they respect you greatly.  And we're giving you a lot of surplus.  We're giving you surplus military equipment, which a lot of people didn't like giving, previous to this administration.  But hundreds of millions of dollars of surplus equipment.  And as we get it, as you know, we send it down.  And you have much better protection.  But I really appreciate you being here.

So the order is signed.  And I'll sign the final papers as soon as I get into the Oval Office.  And we will have a national emergency, and then we will then be sued, and they will sue us in the Ninth Circuit, even though it shouldn't be there.  And we will possibly get a bad ruling, and then we'll get another bad ruling.  And then we'll end up in the Supreme Court, and hopefully we'll get a fair shake.  And we'll win in the Supreme Court, just like the ban.  They sued us in the Ninth Circuit, and we lost, and then we lost in the appellate division, and then we went to the Supreme Court, and we won.

And it was very interesting, because yesterday they were talking about the ban.  Because we have a ban.  It's very helpful.  Madam Secretary, is that right?  Without the ban, we'd have a bigger problem.  We have a ban on certain areas, certain countries, depending on what's going on in the world.  And we won.

But somebody said, “President Trump lost on the ban.”  Well, he was right; I lost at the lower court.  He — he didn't say that we ultimately won at the United States Supreme Court.  They didn't want to say that.  They didn't want to go that far.  They were saying how I lost.  The person sitting right up here — “Donald Trump lost on the ban.”  Yeah, I did.  And then I lost a second time; you should have said that, too.  And then it went to the Supreme Court and I won.  Didn't want to take it that far.  But we won on the ban and we won on other things, too.

The probably easiest one to win is on declaring a national emergency, because we're declaring it for virtual invasion purposes: drugs, traffickers, and gangs.  And one of the things, just to finish: We have removed thousands of MS-13 gang monsters.  Thousands.  They're out of this country.  We take them out by the thousands.  And they are monsters.

Okay.  Do you have any questions?  Yeah.  John, go ahead.

Q    Mr. President — (inaudible).

AIDE:  Yes, we do.  There you go.

Q    You were prepared.  Mr. President, a lot of the money —

THE PRESIDENT:  Were you saying I was prepared?

Q    With the microphone and prepared for questions.

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, I thought you meant I was prepared.  I couldn't believe you said that.

Q    (Laughs.)  No, no, no.  (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT:  People don't like saying that.

Q    You were prepared for questions.

THE PRESIDENT:  I am prepared.  I'm always prepared.

Q    A lot of the money that goes to count toward your $8 billion is money that's being reprogrammed in the DOD budget.  How can you guarantee to military families and to our men and women of the military that none of the money that would be reprogrammed to a wall will take away from other technology, other renovations, construction that is desperately needed in our military?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  So, John, we had certain funds that are being used at the discretion of generals, at the discretion of the military.  Some of them haven't been allocated yet, and some of the generals think that this is more important.  I was speaking to a couple of them.  They think this is far more important than what they were going to use it for.  I said, “What were you going to use it for?”  And I won't go into details, but it didn't sound too important to me.

Plus, if you think, I've gotten $700 billion for the military in year one, and then last year, $716 billion.  And we're rebuilding our military, but we have a lot.  And under the previous administration, our military was depleted — badly depleted.  And they weren't spending — I mean, they had a much less — they had a much smaller amount of money.

So when I got $700 billion, and then $716 billion — and this year, it's going to be pretty big too, because there's few things more important than our military.  You know, I'm a big deficit believer and all of that, but before we really start focusing on certain things, we have to build up our military.  It was very badly depleted.  And we're buying all new jetfighters, all new missiles, all new defensive equipment.  We have — we'll soon have a military like we've never had before.

But when you think about the kind of numbers you're talking about — so you have $700 billion, $716 billion — when I need $2 billion, $3 billion of out that for a wall — which is a very important instrument, very important for the military because of the drugs that pour in.  And as you know, we have specific rules and regulations where they have drugs, and what you can do in order to stop drugs.  And that's part of it, too.

We're taking a lot of money from that realm also.  But when you have that kind of money going into the military, this is a very, very small amount that we're asking for.

Yeah, go ahead.  Go ahead.  ABC.  Not NBC.  I like ABC a little bit more — not much.  Come on, ABC.  Not much.  Pretty close.

Q    Mr. President, what do you say to those, including some of your Republican allies, who say that you are violating the Constitution with this move and setting a bad precedent that will be abused by possibly Democratic Presidents in the future?  Marco Rubio has made this point.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, not too many people.  Yeah.  Not too many people have said that.  But the courts will determine that.

Look, I expect to be sued.  I shouldn't be sued.  Very rarely do you get sued when you do national emergency.  And then other people say, “Oh, if you use it for this, now what are we using it for?”  We got to get rid of drugs and gangs and people.  It's an invasion.  We have an invasion of drugs and criminals coming into our country that we stop, but it's very hard to stop.  With a wall, it would be very easy.

So I think that we will be very successful in court.  I think it's clear.  And the people that say we create precedent — well, what do you have?  Fifty-six?  There are a lot of times — well, that's creating precedent.  And many of those are far less important than having a border.  If you don't have a border, you don't have a country.

You know, we fight — before I got here — we fight all over the world to create borders for countries, but we don't create a border for our own country.

So I think what will happen is, sadly, we'll be sued, and sadly, it'll go through a process.  And, happily, we'll win — I think.

Go ahead.  Let's go.  Let's hear it, NBC.  Come on.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  I just want to say, in the past, when President Obama tried to use executive action as it related to immigration, you said, “The whole concept of executive order, it's not the way the country is supposed to be run.”  You said, “You're supposed to go through Congress and make a deal.”  Will you concede that you were unable to make the deal that you had promised in the past, and that the deal you're ending up with now from Congress is less than what you could have had before a 35-day shutdown?

THE PRESIDENT:  No.  Look, I went through Congress.  I made a deal.  I got almost $1.4 billion when I wasn't supposed to get one dollar — not one dollar.  “He's not going to get one dollar.”  Well, I got $1.4 billion.  But I'm not happy with it.  I also got billions and billions of dollars for other things — port of entries, lots of different things.  The purchase of drug equipment.  More than we were even requesting.

In fact, the primary fight was on the wall.  Everything else, we have so much, as I said, I don't know what to do with it we have so much money.  But on the wall, they skimped.

So I did — I was successful, in that sense, but I want to do it faster.  I could do the wall over a longer period of time.  I didn't need to do this.  But I'd rather do it much faster.  And I don't have to do it for the election.  I've already done a lot of wall, for the election — 2020.  And the only reason we're up here talking about this is because of the election, because they want to try and win an election, which it looks like they're not going to be able to do.  And this is one of the ways they think they can possibly win, is by obstruction and a lot of other nonsense.

And I think that I just want to get it done faster, that's all.

Okay.  Yes, ma'am, go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

Q    Roberta Rampton from Reuters.  I wanted to ask about China.  Do you feel that enough progress has been made in the talks to head off the increase in tariffs scheduled for March 1?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, you know, you're talking to the wrong person, because I happen to like tariffs, okay?  I mean, we're taking in billions and billions of dollars in tariffs from China.  And our steel industry now, as an example, we tax dumped steel — much of it comes from China — at 25 percent.  Our steel industry is so vibrant now again, they're building plants all over the United States.  It's a beautiful thing.  And from a defensive standpoint, and from any standpoint, you need steel.

You know, you can do without certain industries.  Our country cannot do without steel.

So, I love tariffs, but I also love them to negotiate.  And right now, China is paying us billions of dollars a year in tariffs.  And I haven't even started.

Now, here's the thing: If we make a deal, they won't have to pay.  You know, it'll be a whole different story.  They won't be paying that, but we'll have a fair deal.  There won't be intellectual property theft.  There won't be so many other things that have gone on.  And no other President has done this.  No other — you know, we didn't have a deal with China.  You had the WTO, one of the worst trade deals ever made — probably even worse than NAFTA, if that's believable, which, you know, hard to believe, because I think NAFTA was just a disaster.  It was a total disaster for our country.

And now we made the USMCA, which is going to be a terrific — a great deal.  And, by the way, the USMCA, from Mexico — that's United States, Mexico, Canada — that's where the money is coming from, not directly but indirectly, for the wall.  And nobody wants to talk about that.  Because we're saving billions and billions of dollars a year, if Congress approves that deal.

Now, they might now want to approve a deal just because they'll say — one of the things I'm thinking of doing — this has never been done before: No matter how good a deal I make with China, if they sell me Beijing for one dollar, if they give me 50 percent of their land and every ship that they've built over the last two years — which is a lot — and they give them to me free, the Democrats will say, “What a lousy deal; that's a terrible deal.”

Like, ZTE, I got a billion — more than a billion-dollar penalty in a short period of time.  And the Democrats said, “Oh, should've gotten more.”  When I made that deal, I said, “This is incredible.”  I just got — I got over a billion-dollar penalty, plus they had to change their board of directors.  They had to change their top management.  But they had to pay over a billion dollars.  I said, “What a deal.”  It took like a week.  And the Democrats didn't even know there was a problem with ZTE.

I'm the one that find them.  I'm the one that settled it.  Over a billion dollars.  And President Xi called me and he said it would be important to him if they could get a deal.  And we made a deal — paid — like, in a short period of time.

The Democrats went out and said, “Oh, they should've done better.”  So what I'm thinking of doing is getting Chuck Schumer, getting Nancy Pelosi, having them bring two or three of their brilliant representatives.  And we'll all go down together, and what we'll do is we'll negotiate.  I'll put them in the room and let them speak up.  Because any deal I make with China, if it's the great — it's going to be better than any deal that anybody ever dreamt possible, or I'm not going to have a deal.  It's a very simple.

But any deal I make with China, Schumer is going to stand up and say, “Oh, it should've been better.  It should've been better.”  And you know what?  That's not acceptable to me.  So I'm thinking about doing something very different.  I don't think it's ever been — I just don't want to be second-guessed.  But that's not even second-guess; that's called politics.  Sadly, I'd probably do the same thing to them, okay?

But any deal I make toward the end, I'm going to bring Schumer — at least offer him — and Pelosi.  I'm going to say, “Please join me on the deal.”

And, by the way, I just see our new Attorney General is sitting in the front row.  Please stand up, Bill.  (Applause.)  Such an easy job he's got.  He's got the easiest job in government.  Thank you and congratulations.  That was a great vote yesterday.  Thank you very much.

Q    Mr. President —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes, go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    In your remarks, sir, you said that you were too new to politics, earlier in your administration, when you would've preferred that this be done.  Is that an admission of how you might be changing on the job?  And —

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I'm learning.  I mean, I am learning.  Don't forget, it's not like I've done this for — a senator came into my office and said, “Sir, I've been running for office for 30 years.  I've won seven out of seven.  I did lose a couple when I was younger.”  I said, “Well, I've won one out of one.  But, you know, I never did politics before.  Now I do politics.”  I will tell you, I'm very disappointed at certain people, a particular one, for not having pushed this faster.

Q    Are you referring to Speaker Ryan, sir?

THE PRESIDENT:  But I've learned — who?

Q    Speaker Ryan.

THE PRESIDENT:  Let's not talk about it.

Q    Okay.

THE PRESIDENT:  What difference does it make?  But they should have pushed it faster.  They should have pushed it harder.  And they didn't.  They didn't.

If they would have, it would have been a little bit better.  In the meantime, I've built a lot of wall.  I have a lot of money, and I've built a lot of wall.  But it would've been nice to have gotten done.  And I would like to see major immigration reform, and maybe that's something we can all work on, Bill, where we all get together and do major immigration reform — not just for a wall, for a barrier; for port of entry, for other things.

We have a real problem.  We have catch-and-release.  You catch a criminal and you have to release them.  We have so many other things.  You have chain migration, where a bad person comes in, brings 22 or 23 or 35 of his family members — because he has his mother, his grandmother, his sister, his cousin, his uncle — they're all in.

You know what happened on the West Side Highway.  That young wise guy drove over and killed eight people and horribly injured — nobody talks about that — horribly — like, loss of legs and arms — going 60 miles an hour, he made a right turn into a park on the West Side Highway, along the Hudson River in New York.  He had many people brought in because he was in the United States.  It's called chain migration.

And then you have the lottery.  It's a horror show, because when countries put people into the lottery, they're not putting you in; they're putting some very bad people in the lottery.  It's common sense.  If I ran a country, and if I have a lottery system of people going to the United States, I'm not going to put in my stars; I'm going to put in people I don't want.  The lottery system is a disaster.  I'm stuck with it.

Q    Mr. President, could you tell us —

THE PRESIDENT:  It should have — wait.  It should have never happened.  Okay.

Q    Mr. President, could you tell us to what degree some of the outside conservative voices helped to shape your views on this national emergency?

THE PRESIDENT:  I would talk about it.  Look, Sean Hannity has been a terrific, terrific supporter of what I do.  Not of me.  If I changed my views, he wouldn't be with me.

Rush Limbaugh — I think he's a great guy.  Here's a guy who can speak for three hours without a phone call.  Try doing that sometime.  For three hours, he speaks.  He's got one of the biggest audiences in the history of the world.  I mean, this guy is unbelievable.  Try speaking for three hours without taking calls.  Taking calls is easy.  “Okay, I'll answer this one.  I'll answer that one.”  He goes for three hours, and he's got an audience that's fantastic.

Q    Should they be —

THE PRESIDENT:  Wait —

Q    Should they be deciding policy, sir?

THE PRESIDENT:   They don't decide policy.  In fact, if I went opposite — I mean, they have somebody — Ann Coulter.  I don't know her.  I hardly know her.  I haven't spoken to her in way over a year.  But the press loves saying “Ann Coulter.”  Probably, if I did speak to her, she'd be very nice.  I just don't have the time to speak to her.  I would speak to her; I have nothing against her.

In fact, I like her for one reason: When they asked her, like right at the beginning, who was going to win the election, she said, “Donald Trump.”  And the two people that asked her that question smiled.  They said, “You're kidding, aren't you?”  “Nope.  Donald Trump.”

So I like her, but she's off the reservation.  But anybody that knows her understands that.  But I haven't spoken to her.  I don't follow her.  I don't talk to her.  But the press loves to bring up the name “Ann Coulter.”  And you know what?  I think she's fine.  I think she's good.  But I just don't speak to her.

Laura has been great.  Laura Ingraham.  Tucker Carlson has been great.  I actually have a couple people on CNN that have been very good.  I have some on MSNBC.  The other day, they did a great report of me.  I said, “Where the hell did that come from?”  I think it was the only one in over a year.

So the crazy thing is, I just had, as you know, Rasmussen — 52 percent in the polls.  It's my highest poll number.  And people get what we're doing.  They get it.  They really get it.  And I'm honored by it.

Yes.  Jim Acosta.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  I wonder if you could comment on this disconnect that we seem to have in this country, where you are presenting information about what's happening at the border — calling it an “invasion,” talking about women with duct tape over their mouths, and so on — and yet there's a lot of reporting out there, there's a lot of crime data out there, there's a lot of Department of Homeland Security data out there that shows border crossings at a near-record low —

THE PRESIDENT:  That's because of us.  But it's still —

Q    — that shows undocumented immigrants committing crime at lower levels —

THE PRESIDENT:  Excuse me.  It's still massive numbers of crossings.

Q    — that shows undocumented criminals — or undocumented immigrants committing crime at lower levels than native-born Americans.  What do you say —

THE PRESIDENT:  You don't really believe that stat, do you?  Do you really believe that stat?

Q    What do you — well, let me ask you this —

THE PRESIDENT:  Take a look at our federal prisons.

Q    I believe in facts and statistics and data, but —

THE PRESIDENT:  Okay?  Any more?  Quick, let's go.

Q    Let me just ask you this: What do you say to your critics who say that you are creating a national emergency, that you're concocting a national emergency here in order to get your wall because you couldn't get it through other ways?

THE PRESIDENT:  I ask the Angel Moms: What do you think?  Do you think I'm creating something?

Ask these incredible women, who lost their daughters and their sons.  Okay?

PARTICIPANT:  This is real.

THE PRESIDENT:  Because your question is a very political question because you have an agenda.  You're CNN.  You're fake news.  You have an agenda.  The numbers that you gave are wrong.

Take a look at our federal prison population.  See how many of them, percentage-wise, are illegal aliens.  Just see.  Go ahead and see.  It's a fake question.

Yes.  Go ahead.

Q    Can I ask a follow-up?

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  Just to follow up on that, unifying crime reporting statistics — numbers from your own Border Patrol, numbers from this government — show that the amount of illegal immigrants are down, there is not violence on the border, and that most —

THE PRESIDENT:  There's not violence on the border?

Q    There's not as much violence as —

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, really?

Q    Let me — wait a minute.  Wait a minute.  Wait —

THE PRESIDENT:  You had 26 people killed —

Q    Let me finish the question, please.  Let me finish the question, please.

THE PRESIDENT:  Two weeks ago, 26 people were killed in a gunfight on the border —

Q    I understand what you're — I understand what you're saying.

THE PRESIDENT:  — a mile away from where I went.

Q    I was there.  I understand.  That's not the question.  The question is —

THE PRESIDENT:  Do we forget about that?

Q    No, I'm not forgetting about it.  I'm asking you to clarify where you get your numbers, because most of the DEA crime reporting statistics that we see show that drugs are coming across at the ports of entry, that illegal immigration is down, and the violence is down.

THE PRESIDENT:  Okay.

Q    So what do you base your facts on?

THE PRESIDENT:  Okay, let me — come on, let's go.  Sort of — sort of —

Q    And, secondly —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, no.  You get one.  You get one.  Ready?

Q    Well, the second question is —

THE PRESIDENT:  Just sit down.  Wait.  Sit down.  Sit down.

Q    Could you please answer it?

THE PRESIDENT:  Sit down.  You get one question.

I get my numbers from a lot of sources — like Homeland Security, primarily.  And the numbers that I have from Homeland Security are a disaster.  And you know what else is a disaster?  The numbers that come out of Homeland Security, Kirstjen, for the cost that we spend and the money that we lose because of illegal immigration: Billions and billions of dollars a month.  Billions and billions of dollars.  And it's unnecessary.

Q    So your own government stats are wrong, are you saying?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, no.  I use many stats.  I use many stats.

Q    Could you share those stats with us?

THE PRESIDENT:  Let me tell you, you have stats that are far worse than the ones that I use.  But I use many stats, but I also use Homeland Security.

All right, next question.

Q    And do you — wait a minute.  Just a quick follow-up.

THE PRESIDENT:  Go ahead.  No.  Go.  Please.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  I just want to bring you back to China for a second.  The White House put out a statement today talking about the March 1st deadline.  The other day, though, you gave the possibility that maybe this could slide.  Are you eyeing a possible extension — 30 days, maybe 60 days?  What is the status there?  Or is March 1st the deadline?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  Very good question.  So it's a very big deal.  I guess you could say it's like — must be the biggest deal ever made, if you think.  Trade with China, how big does that get?  Although if you look, the USCMA is right up there.  But it's very complicated.  There are many, many points that we're bringing up that nobody ever brought up or thought to bring up, but they're very important, because we were on the wrong side of every one of them.

There is a possibility that I will extend the date.  And if I do that, if I see that we're close to a deal or the deal is going in the right direction, I would do that at the same tariffs that we're charging now.  I would not increase the tariffs.

Q    Let me also ask you about the debt, sir, because it's gone from a shade under $20 trillion from when you took office.  Now it's a shade over $22 trillion and heading in the wrong direction.  What are your plans to reverse it?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, it's all about growth.  But before I —

Q    (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  — really focus on that — and you have to remember, President Obama put on more debt on this country than every President in the history of our country combined.  So when I took over, we had one man that put on more debt than every other President combined.  Combine them all.  So you can't be talking about that.  But I talk about it because I consider it very important.

But first, I have to straighten out the military.  The military was depleted.  And if we don't have a strong military — that hopefully we won't have to use because it's strong — if we don't have a strong military, you don't have to worry about debt; you have bigger problems.  So I have to straighten out the military.  That's why I did the $700- and $716 billion.  But growth will straighten it out.

You saw last month, the trade deficit went way down.  Everybody said, “What happened?”  Well, what's happening is growth.  But before I can focus too much on that, a very big expense is military.  And we have no choice but to straighten out our military.

Q    Is growth the only answer, sir, or is (inaudible)?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes, ma'am, go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  On North Korea — back on the last summit, you guys came out with a pretty general agreement.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

Q    I was wondering what you thought has, you know, been accomplished since the last summit.  And then —

THE PRESIDENT:  A lot.

Q    — are we going to be seeing anything concrete —

THE PRESIDENT:  A lot has been accomplished.  Okay.

Q    — on denuclearization.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  A lot has been accomplished.  We're dealing with them, we're talking to them.

When I came into office, I met right there, in the Oval Office, with President Obama.  And I sat in those beautiful chairs and we talked.  It was supposed to be 15 minutes.  As you know, it ended up being many times longer than that.

And I said, “What's the biggest problem?”  He said, “By far, North Korea.”  And I don't want to speak for him, but I believe he would have gone to war with North Korea.  I think he was ready to go to war.  In fact, he told me he was so close to starting a big war with North Korea.  And where are we now?  No missiles.  No rockets.  No nuclear testing.  We've learned a lot.

But much more importantly than all of it — much more important — much, much more important that that is we have a great relationship.  I have a very good relationship with Kim Jong Un.  And I've done a job.  In fact, I think I can say this: Prime Minister Abe of Japan gave me the most beautiful copy of a letter that he sent to the people who give out a thing called the Nobel Prize.  He said, “I have nominated you…” or “Respectfully, on behalf of Japan, I am asking them to give you the Nobel Peace Prize.”  I said, “Thank you.”  Many other people feel that way too.  I'll probably never get it, but that's okay.

They gave it to Obama.  He didn't even know what he got it for.  He was there for about 15 seconds and he got the Nobel Prize.  He said, “Oh, what did I get it for?”  With me, I probably will never get it.

But if you look at Idlib Province in Syria, I stopped the slaughter of perhaps 3 million people.  Nobody talk about that.  They don't talk about that.  Russia and Iran and Syria were going to go in and perhaps destroy 3 million people in order to get 45,000 terrorists.  And I heard about it from a woman who had her parents and her brothers living there, and she said, “Please, please.”  And I thought — I said, “No, it can't happen.  What are you talking about?”  “No, they're going to get…”  And I come home, and I read a certain paper where the story was there that they were actually forming to go into — to really — to really do big destruction.  And I put out a statement that “you better not do it.”

And in all fairness to Russia and Iran and Syria, they didn't attack.  Or they're doing it surgically, at least.  Saved a lot of people.  We do a lot of good work.  This administration does a tremendous job, and we don't get credit for it.  But I think the people understand what we do.

So Prime Minister Abe gave me — I mean, it's the most beautiful five letter — five-page letter.  Nobel Prize.  He sent it to them.  You know why?  Because he had rocket ships and he had missiles flying over Japan.  And they had alarms going off; you know that.  Now, all of a sudden, they feel good; they feel safe.  I did that.

And it was a very tough dialogue at the beginning.  Fire and fury.  Total annihilation.  “My button is bigger than yours” and “my button works.”  Remember that?  You don't remember that.  And people said, “Trump is crazy.”  And you know what it ended up being?  A very good relationship.  I like him a lot and he likes me a lot.  Nobody else would have done that.

The Obama administration couldn't have done it.  Number one, they probably wouldn't have done it.  And number two, they didn't have the capability to do it.

So I just want to thank everybody.  I want to wish our Attorney General great luck and speed, and enjoy your life.  (Laughter.)  Bill, good luck.  A tremendous reputation.  I know you'll do a great job.  Thank you very much.  And thank you, everybody.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you very much. Thank you everybody. (Applause.) Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Matt, for that great introduction. And thank you for this big crowd. This is incredible. Really incredible. (Applause.)

We've all come a long way together. We've come a long way together. I'm thrilled to be back at CPAC, with so many of my wonderful friends and amazing supporters, and proud conservatives. (Applause.) Remember when I first started running? Because I wasn't a politician, fortunately. But do you remember I started running and people would say, “Are you sure he's a conservative?” I think now we've proved that I'm a conservative, right? (Applause.)

For more than four decades, this event has served as a forum for our nation's top leaders, activists, writers, thinkers. Year after year, leaders have stood on this stage to discuss what we can do together to protect our heritage, to promote our culture, and to defend our freedom.

CPAC has always been about big ideas and it's also been about putting those ideas into action. And CPAC really has put a lot of ideas into action. We'll talk about some of them this morning.

For the last year, with your help, we have put more great conservative ideas into use than perhaps ever before in American history. (Applause.) Right?

By the way, what a nice picture that is. Look at that. I'd love to watch that guy speak. (Laughter.) Oh, boy. That's a—I try like hell to hide that bald spot, folks. I work hard at it. (Applause.) It doesn't look bad. Hey, we're hanging in. We're hanging in. We're hanging in there, right? Together, we're hanging in.

We've confirmed a record number—so important—of circuit court judges, and we are going to be putting in a lot more. (Applause.) And they will interpret the law as written. And we've confirmed an incredible new Supreme Court justice, a great man, Neil Gorsuch. (Applause.) Right?

We've passed massive—biggest in history—tax cuts and reforms. (Applause.) You know, I don't use the word “reform.” There was a lot of reform, too. Very positive reform. I don't use it. And when we were first doing it, I told everybody—everybody gathered—I said, “Just talk about tax cuts. People don't know what reform means. They think reform might mean it's going up.” And I said, “Do tax cuts.”

AUDIENCE: Booo —

AUDIENCE: USA! USA! USA!

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. How did he get in here, Matt? Boy. Okay. Just for the media, the fake news back there, they took very good care of him. They were very gentle. (Laughter.) He was very obnoxious. It was only one person.

So we have thousands of people here. (Applause.) So listen—tomorrow, the headline will be, “Protestors disturbed the Trump…”—one person, folks. Doesn't deserve a mention. Doesn't deserve a headline. The headline tomorrow: “Disrupters of CPAC.” One person. And he was very nice—we looked at him, and he immediately left. Okay. (Laughter and applause.)

No, I've had it too often. You'll have one person, and you can hardly even hear him. In fact, the biggest, really, disturbance are you people. You know why? He'll say something; nobody hears him. Because it's all—and then the crowd will start screaming at him. And then all of a sudden we stop for—and that's okay. You have to show your spirit, right? You have to show your spirit. It's true. (Applause.)

So we passed the biggest tax cuts in the history of our country. And it was called “tax cut and reform.” And I said to our people, don't use the word “reform.” Because we were going to call it the “Tax Reform Act.” I said, “No wonder for 45 years nothing has been passed.” Because people want tax cuts, and they don't know what reform means. Reform can mean you're going to pay more tax. So I convinced politicians who have done this all their lives—and they do a great job, in many cases—but this was one—they were going, the “Tax Reform Act” of whatever year we want to put. Okay?

So they have the Tax Reform Act, and that was it. And now it was called the Tax Act—Tax Cut Act and Jobs. We had to add “jobs” into it because we're picking up a tremendous number of jobs—2.7 million jobs since the election. 2.7. (Applause.)

So now people hear tax cuts, and it has been popular. Remember, it started off a little slow. Then it got passed, and we had some great help. I will say, we had some great help in the Senate, in the House. We have guys here today—we have a lot of congressmen, we have a lot of senators. We had a lot of help. And we got it passed.

Just—it was not easy. We didn't have one Democrat vote, and I think that's going to cost them in the midterms. I know that whoever wins the presidency has a disadvantage, for whatever reason, in the midterms. You know what happens? I'm trying to figure it out. Because historically, if you win the presidency, you don't do well two years later. And you know what? We can't let that happen. (Applause.) And I know what happens. I finally figured it out. Nobody has been able to explain it. It just happens, statistically, almost all of the time for many years.

What happens is, you fight so hard to win the presidency. You fight, fight, fight. And now only two years—that's a very short period. And by the time you start campaigning, it's a year. And now you got to go and fight again. But you just won. So nobody has that same drive that they had. So you end up not doing that well because the other side is going—they're crazed. And, by the way, they're crazed anyway, these people. They are really crazed. (Laughter and applause.) Right?

So—because I kept trying to say, “Why is this?” But it's just there. So the great enthusiasm—you know, you're sitting back, you're watching television. “Maybe I don't have to vote today; we just won the presidency.” And then we get clobbered, and we can't let that happen. We get clobbered in '18, and we can't let that happen—only because we are so happy, we passed so many things. Honestly, and I'll say—I'll use the word “my administration” as opposed to me—my administration, I think, has had the most successful first year in the history of the presidency. I really believe that. I really believe it. I really believe it. (Applause.) So, I mean, judges, regulations, everything.

And the beautiful thing about the tax cuts is nobody thought we could do it. Because again, we had to get 100 percent of our vote. And nobody thought we could do it. And, frankly—I mean, to me we got it and it's turned out to be one of the most popular things. And, by the way, for the Republicans in this room, of which I assume—would you say, is it 99 percent, Matt, or 100 percent? Huh? I would hope it's close to—you know what, hey, we probably have some Democrats that want to come over. We have a great governor from West Virginia that left the Democratic Party—Big Jim—and he came over to the Republican Party. (Applause.)

So people are sitting there, and they're saying, “Oh, we just had that great victory. Eh, let's not vote. Let's go to a movie. We're the Republican Party, we're going to do great.” And then they end up losing.

So you got to keep up the enthusiasm. Now what happens, by the way, they lose. And then you have the presidential election coming up again, and you clobber them because everybody gets off their ass and they get out and they work. Right? And they work. And they work and work and work. And you end up winning the Presidency again. And we should do that—hopefully we're going to do that very easily.

But never—we have to worry—right now, we have a big race coming up in '18. You have to get out. You have to just get that enthusiasm. Keep it going. (Applause.)

See, the word, really, is “complacent.” People get complacent. It's a natural instinct. You just won, and now you're happy and you're complacent. Don't be complacent. Okay? Don't be complacent. Because if they get in, they will repeal your tax cuts, they will put judges in that you wouldn't believe, they'll take away your Second Amendment, which we will never allow to happen. (Applause.) They'll take away your Second Amendment. (Applause).

AUDIENCE: Donald Trump! Donald Trump!

THE PRESIDENT: Remember that. They will take away—thank you. They will take away those massive tax cuts and they will take away your Second Amendment. By the way, if you only had a choice of one, what would you rather have? The Second Amendment or the tax cuts? Go ahead, Second Amendment, tax cuts. Second Amendment. (Applause.) I'm going to leave it at the Second Amendment. I don't want to get into that battle, all right?

We're going to say you want—Matt, we're going to say you want the Second Amendment the most. But we're going to get them all. And remember this—(applause)—remember this: We've gotten—you know, somebody got on television recently and they said, actually, this is the first time I can remember—Trump made campaign promises. He may be the only person that actually fulfilled more promises than he made. I think that's true. (Applause.) I fulfilled more promises.

But we have a very crooked media. We had a crooked candidate, too, by the way. But we have a very, very crooked media.

AUDIENCE: Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up!

THE PRESIDENT: I will say this, folks: Everything that's turning out, now it's amazing that's come full circle. Boy, have they committed a lot of atrocities when you look. (Applause.) Right? When you look. Have they done things that are wrong.

But remember this: Not only did we get the tax cuts, which everybody said we wouldn't get—and, by the way, repealed, in that tax cut, the individual mandate, which is a tremendous thing. (Applause.)

This is where you're forced to pay in order not to have healthcare. Okay? Is that great? You pay for the privilege of not having healthcare. So you're subsidizing lots of other people. That's gone. I know people came up to me with tears in their eyes; they're saying, I'm forced to pay not to have healthcare. Very unfair.

And, by the way, we're having tremendous plans coming out now—healthcare plans—at a fraction of the cost that are much better than Obamacare. (Applause.) And except for one Senator, who came into a room at 3 o'clock in the morning and went like that—we would have had healthcare, too.

AUDIENCE: Booo —

THE PRESIDENT: We would have had healthcare, too. Think of that. But I think we may be better off the way we're doing it. It's piece by piece by piece. Obamacare is just being wiped out. The individual mandate, essentially, wipes it out. (Applause.) So I think we may be better off. And people are getting great healthcare plans and we're not finished yet.

But, remember, one person walked into a room when he was supposed to go this way, and he said he was going this way, and he walked in, and he went this way, and everyone said, “What happened? What was that all about?” Boy, oh, boy. Who was that? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't want to be controversial, so I won't use his name. Okay? (Laughter.) What a mess. But it's all happening anyway. It's all happening anyway.

And we've, at the same time, eliminated a record number of job-killing regulations, and people are going back to work. (Applause.) Right? People are going back to work. So—and you know, the fake news always—if I say something that's like, a little off, next day headline, “He misrepresents…”—I have to be careful.

But in the history of Presidents, no President—and I'm saying no President. Now, maybe they'll find I was off by two but we're here one year. (Laughter.) No President—well, I read it in lots of good papers, actually. (Laughter.) But they'll change the story when I say it. No President has ever cut so many regulations in their entire term, okay—(applause)—as we've cut in less than a year. (Applause.)

And it's my opinion that the regulations had as big an impact as these massive tax cuts that we've given. So I really believe it. (Applause.)

We've ended the war on American energy. We were in war. And we've ended the war on beautiful, clean coal. (Applause.) One of our great natural resources. And very important for our defense—coal—very important for our defense. Because we have it. We don't have to send it through pipes. We don't have to get it from foreign countries. We have more than anybody. And they wanted to end it. And our miners have been mistreated and they're not being mistreated anymore. We're doing tremendous business. (Applause.)

I was in Vietnam, and the Prime Minister and the President of Vietnam were there. And we have a massive deficit with them, like we do with everybody else because these Presidents have just let it go to hell. We have the worst trade deals you've ever seen. So we're changing it.

So I said, we have too big of a deficit with Vietnam; I'm not happy. He said, “Well, but we're going to…” I said, “Buy coal. Buy coal.” They use a lot of coal. Buy coal. And he said, “You know, we have bought coal from West Virginia and other places, and it's the finest coal we have ever used.” It's interesting. And West Virginia now is doing great. You look at what's happening in West Virginia. You look at what's happening in Pennsylvania. You look at what's happening in Ohio. (Applause.) And you look at what's happening in Wyoming. You look at what's happening all over. It's like a—it's like a different world.

And remember this: Virtually, as soon as I got into office, we approved the Keystone XL pipeline and the Dakota Access pipeline, which would never have been approved. (Applause.) And we announced our withdrawal from the totally disastrous, job-killing, wealth-knocking-out—you know, it knocked out our wealth, or it would have. They basically wanted to take our wealth away. They didn't want us to use our wealth power. We knocked out the Paris Climate Accord. Would have been a disaster. (Applause.) Would have been a disaster for our country.

AUDIENCE: USA! USA! USA!

THE PRESIDENT: You know, basically, it said, you have a lot of oil and gas that we found—you know, technology has been amazing—and we found things that we never knew. But we have massive—just about the top in the world—we have massive energy reserves. We have coal. We have so much. And basically, they were saying, don't use it, you can't use it.

So what it does is it makes us uncompetitive with other countries. It's not going to happen. I told them, it's not going to happen. And, you know, China, their agreement didn't kick in until 2030. Right? Our agreement kicks in immediately. Russia, they're allowed to go back into the 1990s, which was not a clean environmental time.

Other countries, big countries—India and others—we had to pay, because they considered them a growing country. They were a growing country. I said, “What are we?” Are we allowed to grow too? Okay? (Laughter.) Now, are we allowed to grow? (Applause.) They called India a “developing nation.” They called China a “developing nation.” But the United States, we're developed—we can pay.

So, folks, if you don't mind—I'll tell you what—it's amazing how many people understood the Paris Accord, because it sounds so good. It's like some of the environmental regulations that I cut—they have the most beautiful titles. And sometimes I'd say, “Look, I'm just going to close my eyes and sign this because, you know what, I'm going to get killed on this one.” And I get so much thanks. The country knows what I'm doing. We couldn't build. We couldn't farm. If you had a puddle on your land, they called it a lake for the purposes of environmentals. (Applause.) I mean, it's crazy. It's crazy.

And I'd sign certain bills and I'd have farmers behind me and I'd have house builders, home builders behind me. And these are tough people, strong people. They fought hard. They've worked all their lives, hard. And they'd be—half of them would be crying because we gave them their property back. We gave them the right to earn a living. They couldn't do it. They couldn't do what they had to do. We gave them their property back. We gave them their dignity back. (Applause.)

By the way, you don't mind if I go off script a little bit because, you know, it's sort of boring. It's a little boring. (Applause.) Got this beautiful speech, everything is wonderful but a little boring. We have to, you know —

But we gave them their dignity back. And that's why our country is doing record business. We're doing record business. We're doing business—and you have to look at the fundamentals. Companies are pouring back into this country. They're pouring back. Not like — I mean, when did you hear about car companies coming back into Michigan and coming to Ohio and expanding? (Applause.) When did you hear — you never heard that. You hear they're leaving. I've been talking about it for 20 years.

I was a private sector guy. But for whatever reason, I always had — these guys always covered me much more than anybody else. I always got a lot of these characters. They used to treat me so good too, until I ran for office. I used to get the greatest publicity. A friend of mine said, “You know, you used to be the king of getting great publicity. What happened?” I said, “Well, I have some views that they're opposed to for a lot of bad reasons.” (Laughter.) A lot of really bad reasons.

But when you look at what's happening to our country, it's incredible. And the fundamentals are so strong. The stock market — I just see with all of the ups and downs — since Election Day, is up 37 percent from Election — 37 percent. (Applause.) Now, it did a little bit of a correction. In fact, I started to say — you know, I was in it for like 13, 14 months from election. I say, “Is this sucker ever going down a little bit? This is a little embarrassing.” It was up 100, up 200, up 1,000, up 150, up 90, up 63. I said, “Good, that's better.” (Laughter.) You know, hey, we've got seven years to go, folks. You know, we got a long time to go. (Applause.) So thank you, everybody. You've been amazing. You've been amazing.

You know what Matt didn't say — when I was here in 2011, I made a speech, and I was received with such warmth. And they give — they used to give — I don't know if Matt does that because he might not want to be controversial, but they used to give “the best speech of CPAC.” Do they do that still, Matt? Because you better pick me or I'm not coming back again. (Laughter.)

But — and I got these — everybody, they loved that speech. And that was, I think, Matt — I would say, that might have been the first real political speech that I made. It was a love fest — 2011, I believe the time was — and a lot of people remembered, and they said, “We want Trump. We want Trump.” And after a few years, they go by, and I say, “Here we are. Let's see what we can do.”

And then everybody said, “He cannot get elected. He cannot do it.” You need 270 votes. You need Electoral College — which, by the way, is much tougher than the popular vote. The popular vote, actually, would be so much easier. You go three or four states, and you just go and you just do great job. Hillary forgets that. You know, she went to these states. I said, “What's she doing? Why does she keep going back to California?” (Laughter.) Crazy.

Next time, they're going to remember Iowa. They're going to remember Ohio. (Applause.) Remember? They spent a lot of time in Pennsylvania to no avail. (Applause.) They spent a lot of money. They spent a lot of money in North Carolina, the great state of North Carolina. (Applause.) We did very well there. We have a great person in the room, Mark Meadows, from North Carolina. (Applause.) He's around here. Where's Mark? Where's Mark? And Deb. And we have Jim Jordan. Warriors. Warriors all. (Applause.) We have a lot of great — we have a lot of great people here. But, you know, we just — we hit a chord.

And if you remember, 2011, probably that was the beginning of what we've done. And hopefully, at the end of a period of time, people are going to say thank you, because it is not easy. We're fighting a lot of forces. They're forces that are doing the wrong thing. They're just doing the wrong thing. I don't want to talk about what they have in mind. But they do the wrong thing. But we're doing what's good for our country for the long-term viability and survival. Like, for instance, $700 billion got approved for our military. Our military was going to hell. (Applause.)

We declined to certify the terrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal. That was a horrible deal. (Applause.) Whoever heard you give $150 billion to a nation that has no respect for you whatsoever? They're saying “Death to America” while they're signing the agreement. If somebody said “Death to America” while I'm signing an agreement, and I'm President, I immediately say, “What's going on here, folks? I'm not signing.” (Laughter.) What's going on?

They just kept going. Kerry — Kerry may be the worst negotiator I've ever seen. (Laughter.) How about this guy — how about — and Obama, of course — he's the one. But how about $1.8 billion in cash? Did you ever see what, like, a million dollars in hundred-dollar bills? A lot of people do it as a promotion. It's a lot. It's big. It's like big. (Laughter.) Now, take that, go to $1.8 billion in cash. $1.8 billion. For what? For what? Why did we do this? Why did we do it?

Anyway, we didn't certify, and lots of interesting things are happening with that whole mess. But we have to treat — people that treat us well, we treat them well. People that treat us badly, we treat them much worse than they can ever imagine. That's the way it has to be. (Applause.) That's the way it has to be.

We officially recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. (Applause.) You know, every President campaigned on, “We're going to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.” Everybody — for many Presidents — you've been reading it. And then they never pulled it off. And I now know why.

Because I put the word out that I may do it. Right? I said, I'd do it in my campaign, so that usually means — unless I find something — I'm going to do it. I was hit by more countries and more pressure and more people calling, begging me, “Don't do it. Don't do it. Don't do it.” I said, “We have to do it. It's the right thing to do. It's the right thing to do. We have to do it.” (Applause.) And I did it.

But every other President really lied, because they campaigned on it. That was always a big part of the campaign. And then they got into office; they never did it. So I understand why they didn't do it. Because there was tremendous — the campaign against it was so incredible. But you know what? The campaign for it was also incredible, and we did the right thing. (Applause.)

So we've kept our promise, as I said, to rebuild our military, eliminating the defense sequester, which is a disaster. And I don't know if you saw the number, $700 billion. You know, ultimately, that comes before everything else. We can talk about lots of things. But if we don't have a strong military, you might not be allowed into this room someday. Okay? You may not have your houses, your homes, your beautiful communities. We better take care of our military. These are the greatest people, and we're going to take care of our veterans. (Applause.) We're going to take care of the vets. We've been doing a good job on the vets.

And after years of rebuilding other nations — we rebuild other nations — we rebuild other nations that have a lot of money, and we don't ever say, “Hey, you got to help.” We're finally rebuilding our nation. We're rebuilding our nation. (Applause.) And we're restoring our confidence and our pride.

All of us here today are united by the same timeless values. We defend our Constitution, and we believe in the wisdom of our Founders. Our Constitution is great. (Applause.) We support the incredible men and women of law enforcement. (Applause.) True. We know that a strong nation must have strong borders. We celebrate our history and our heroes, and we believe young Americans should be taught to love their country and to respect its traditions.

Don't worry, you're getting the wall. Don't worry, okay? I heard some — (applause) — we're getting the wall.

AUDIENCE: Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall!

THE PRESIDENT: I had a couple of these characters in the back say, “Oh, he really doesn't want the wall. He just used that for campaigning.” I said, are you — can you believe it? (Laughter.) You know, I say, every time I hear that, the wall gets 10 feet higher. You know that, right? (Applause.) Every time. Every single time. Okay?

No, we're going to have the wall or they're not going to have what they want. You know, we have a problem: We need more Republicans. We have a group of people that vote against us in a bloc. They're good at two things: resisting, obstruction. Resisting, obstruction. And they stick together. They do. They always vote in a bloc. You know, it's very rare that you get a couple of them to come your way. Even on the tax cuts. I mean, we're going to be fighting these people in the '18 election. We're going to be fighting people that voted against the tax cuts, because the tax cuts are phenomenal and popular, and helping people and helping our country.

You saw Apple just brought $350 billion in; Exxon brought $50 billion in. (Applause.) So we're going to be fighting.

The fact is, we need more Republicans to vote. (Applause.) We want to get our agenda. Because, now, what we have to do is in order to get a vote to fix our military, we have to give them $100 billion in stuff that nobody in this room, including me, wants, in many cases. It's terrible. We need more Republicans. That's why you have to get out and you have to fight for '18. You have to do it. (Applause.)

We salute our great American flag, we put our hands on our hearts for the Pledge of Allegiance. (Applause.) And we all proudly stand for the national anthem. (Applause.)

AUDIENCE: USA! USA! USA!

THE PRESIDENT: Above all else, we know that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are at the center of American life. We know that. (Applause.) Because in America, we don't worship government, we worship God. (Applause.)

Our nation's motto is, “In God We Trust.” (Applause.) And this week, our nation lost an incredible leader who devoted his life to helping us understand what those words really mean. Leader. He was a leader. He was a great man.

We will never forget the historic crowds, that voice, the energy, and the profound faith of a preacher named Billy Graham. (Applause.) Great man and great family. Franklin Graham. Great family. And they were for us — I'll tell you, they were for us. Right from the beginning they were for us.

As a young man, Billy decided to devote his life to God. That choice not only changed his life, it changed our country. And indeed, it even changed the world.

Reverend Graham's belief in the power of God's word gave hope to millions and millions who listened to him with his very beautiful, but very simple message: God loves you. (Applause.) And a very special tribute — because it's almost never done — on Wednesday, we will celebrate Billy Graham's life as he lies in honor in the Rotunda of our Capitol. (Applause.) Very rarely.

One day — Wednesday until Thursday, about 11 o'clock on Wednesday. I bet those lines are going to be long and beautiful, because he deserves it. Not everybody deserves it. But very few people — you look back, Ronald Reagan was so honored. Very few people are so honored. That's a big thing. And he really, almost more than anybody you can think of, he deserves to be in the Rotunda. So that's going to be very special. Wednesday at 11 o'clock. (Applause.) And Paul, and Mitch, and the whole group, they worked very hard to make it all happen. So we want to thank them too.

Everywhere you go, all over the country, in cities small and large, Americans of all faiths reach out to our Creator for strength, for inspiration, and for healing. Great time for healing. In times of grief and hardship, we turn to prayer for solace and for comfort.

In recent days, our entire nation has been filled with terrible pain and sorrow over the evil massacre in a great community — Parkland, Florida. This senseless act of mass murder has shocked our nation and broken our hearts.

This week, I had the honor of meeting with students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, with families who have lost their children in prior shootings — great families, great people — and with members of the local community right here in Washington, D.C. Our whole nation was moved by their strength and by their courage.

We listened to their heart-wrenching stories, asked them for ideas, and pledged to them — and I can speak for all of the senators and congressmen and congresswomen, all of the people in this room that are involved in this decision — that we will act. We will do something. We will act.

With us on Wednesday was one of the families whose daughter didn't come home last week — a beautiful young woman named Meadow Pollack. Incredible family. I had them in the Oval Office. Incredible people. You've probably seen her picture. She had a beautiful, beautiful smile, and a beautiful life. So full of promise.

We wish there was something — anything — we could do to bring Meadow and all of the others back. There are not enough tears in the world to express our sadness and anguish for her family, and for every family that has lost a precious loved one. No family should ever save — and ever have to go in and suffer the way these families have suffered. They've suffered beyond anything that I've ever witnessed.

A father drops his daughter off at school, kisses her goodbye, waves to her — she's walking up the path — and never sees her alive again. Gets a call. Can't believe it. Thinks it's a nightmare. Wants to wake up from the nightmare.

So we want to hear ideas from Americans of all backgrounds and beliefs about how we can improve security at our schools, tackle the issue of mental health. Because this was a sick person — very sick — and we had a lot of warning about him being sick. This wasn't a surprise. To the people that knew him, this wasn't even a little bit; in fact, some said, were surprised it took so long. So what are we doing? What are we doing? We want to ensure that when there are warning signs, we can act and act very quickly.

Why do we protect our airports, and our banks, our government buildings, but not our schools? (Applause.) It's time to make our schools a much harder target for attackers. We don't want them in our schools. (Applause.) We don't want them.

When we declare our schools to be gun-free zones, it just puts our students in far more danger. (Applause.) Far more danger. Well-trained, gun-adept teachers and coaches and people that work in those buildings; people that were in the Marines for 20 years and retired; people in the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Coast Guard; people that are adept — adept with weaponry and with guns — they teach. I mean, I don't want to have 100 guards standing with rifles all over the school. You do a concealed carry permit. (Applause.)

And this would be a major deterrent because these people are inherently cowards. If they thought — like, if this guy thought that other people would be shooting bullets back at him, he wouldn't have gone to that school. He wouldn't have gone there. It's a gun-free zone. It says, this is a gun-free zone; please check your guns way far away. And what happens is they feel safe. There's nobody going to come at them.

This way, you may have — and remember, if you use this school as an example — this is a very big school with tremendous floor area and a lot of acreage. It's a big, big school. Good school. A big, big school. You'd have to have 150 real guards. Look, you had one guard. He didn't turn out to be too good, I will tell you that. He turned out to be not good. He was not a credit to law enforcement, that I can tell you. That I can tell you. (Applause.)

But as I've been talking about this idea — and I feel it's a great idea, but some people that are good people are opposed to it; they don't like the idea of teachers doing it. But I'm not talking about teachers. You know, CNN went on, they said, “Donald Trump wants all teachers.” Okay? Fake news, folks. Fake news. Fake news.

I don't want a person that's never handled a gun that wouldn't know what a gun looks like to be armed. But out of your teaching population — out of your teaching population, you have 10 percent, 20 percent of very gun-adept people. Military people, law enforcement people, they teach. They teach. (Applause.)

And something I thought of this morning. You know what else? And I thought of it since I found and watched Peterson, the deputy who didn't go into the school because he didn't want to go into the school. Okay? He was tested under fire, and that wasn't a good result.

But you know what I thought of as soon as I saw that? These teachers — and I've seen them at a lot of schools where they had problems — these teachers love their students. And the students love their teachers, in many cases. These teachers love their students. And these teachers are talented with weaponry and with guns. And they feel safe. And I'd rather have somebody that loves their students and wants to protect their students than somebody standing outside that doesn't know anybody and doesn't know the students, and, frankly, for whatever reason, decided not to go in even though he heard lots of shots being fired inside.

The teachers and the coaches and other people in the building — the dean, the assistant dean, the principal — they can — they love their people. They want to protect these kids. And I think we're better with that. And this may be 10 percent or 20 percent of the population of teachers, et cetera. It's not all of them. But you would have a lot, and you would tell people that they're inside. And the beauty is, it's concealed. Nobody would ever see it unless they needed it. It's concealed.

So this crazy man who walked in wouldn't even know who it is that has it. That's good. That's not bad; that's good. And a teacher would have shot the hell out of him before he knew what happened. (Applause.) They love their students. They love those students, folks. Remember that. They love their students.

And I'm telling you that would work. Because we need offensive capability. We can't just say, oh, it's a gun-free school. We're going to do it a little bit better. Because then you say, “What happens outside?” The students now leave school, and you got a thousand students — you got 3,500 at the school we're talking about — but you have a thousand students standing outside. The teachers are out there also. If a madman comes along, we have the same problem, but it's outside of the school. Or they drive cars. There are a lot of things that can happen.

I want to stop it. And I know it's a little controversial to say — but I have to say, since I started this two days ago, a lot of people that were totally opposed to it are now agreeing. They love their students. They don't want their students to be killed or to be hurt. (Applause.)

So we have to do something that works. And one of the big measures that we will do, and everybody in this room I think has to agree — and there's nobody that loves the Second Amendment more than I do. And there's nobody that respects the NRA — they're friends of mine. They backed us all. They're great people. They're patriots. (Applause.) But they're great people. But we really do have to strengthen up, really strengthen up background checks. We have to do that. (Applause.)

And we have to do — for the mentally ill, we have to do very, very — we don't want to people that are mentally ill to be having any form of weaponry. We have to be very strong on that. (Applause.)

So we're going to do that. And I really believe that Congress is going to get it through this time. And they have a different leader. They have somebody that wants to get it through; not somebody that's just all talk, no action, like so many of these folks. This is somebody that wants to get it through.

But I also want to protect — we need a hardened site. It has to be hardened. It can't be soft. Because they'll sneak in through a window, they'll sneak in some way. And, again, you're standing there totally unprotected.

You know the five great soldiers from four years ago, three of them were world-class marksmen. They were on a military base in a gun-free zone. They were asked to check their guns quite far away. And a maniac walked in, guns blazing, killed all of five of them. He wouldn't of had a chance if these world-class marksmen had — on a military base — access to their guns. And I'm going to look at that whole policy on military bases. If we can't have — (applause) — all five were killed. All five. The guy wouldn't have had a chance.

But we're going to look at that whole military base, gun-free zone. If we can't have our military holding guns, it's pretty bad. We had a number of instances on military bases. You know that. So we want to protect our military. We want to make our military stronger and better than it's ever been before. (Applause.)

We also need to create a culture in our country that cherishes life and human dignity. That's part of what we're talking about. (Applause.) A culture that condemns violence and never glorifies violence. We need to foster real human connections and turn classmates and colleagues into friends and neighbors that want to fight for us.

We're not just having a conversation about school safety. You've had conversations — in all fairness, I'm pretty new on this job. We're here a little more than a year. I've been watching this stuff go on for 20 years. The President gets up, everybody is enthusiastic for the first couple of days, then it fades, fades, fades. Nothing ever gets done. We want to see if we can get it done. Let's get it done right. (Applause.) We really owe it to our country. And I've been watching for a long time. Seen a lot of words, and I've seen very little action.

And, you know, if you think about, most of its just common sense. It's not “do you love guns, do hate guns.” It's common sense. It's all common sense. And some of the strongest advocates about what I'm saying are the strongest advocates — I know them very well — political people — the strongest advocates for the Second Amendment. But this is common sense.

In addition to securing our schools, we're also implementing a strategy to secure our streets. We want our kids to be safe everywhere they go, whether they're in a classroom walking home from school or just outside playing with their friends. (Applause.) Every child deserves to grow up in a safe community surrounded by a loving family and to have a future filled with opportunity and with hope. (Applause.) Thank you. Thank you. Just not fair.

Reducing violent crime in America is a top priority for my administration, and we will do whatever it takes to get it done. No talk. We're going to do what it takes to get it done. (Applause.)

As you've seen, pretty well reported, that we're significantly increasing gun prosecutions by tremendous percentages, and we're working to get violent offenders off our streets and behind bars, and get them behind bars quickly, for a long time, or get them the hell out of our country. (Applause.)

In 2017, we brought cases against more violent offenders than any administration in a quarter of a century — more than any administration. And we're just gearing up. We have tough people. I'll tell you what — when you deal with MS-13, the only thing they understand is toughness. They don't want anything. All they understand is toughness. If that ICE agent or Border Patrol agent is tougher than them, they respect him. We got the toughest guys you've ever seen. We got tough. (Applause.) They don't respect anything else. And they shouldn't be in our country. They were let in for years. They shouldn't be, and we're getting them out.

Our administration prosecuted more people for federal firearm charges than has been done in more than a decade. And again, we're just gearing up. We've convicted 1,200 gang members and nearly 500 human traffickers. (Applause.) You know what human trafficking — who would think that we have this in this age? And with our foreign partners, we've helped charge or arrest more than 4,000 members of the savage gang that we talked about — MS-13.

Now, they don't like guns. You know why? They're not painful enough. These are animals. They cut people. They cut them. They cut them up in little pieces and they want them to suffer. And we take them into our country because our immigration laws are so bad. And when we catch them — it's called catch-and-release — we have to, by law, catch them and then release them. Catch-and-release. And I can't get the Democrats — and nobody has been able to for years — to approve common-sense measures that, when we catch these animal-killers, we can lock them up and throw away the keys. (Applause.)

In 2017, our brave ICE officers arrested more than 100,000 criminal aliens who have committed tens of thousands of crimes. And believe me, these are great people. They cannot — the laws are just against us. They're against — they're against safety. They don't make sense. And you meet with Democrats and they're always fighting for the criminal. They're not fighting for law-abiding citizens. They're always fighting for the criminal. (Applause.) Doesn't make sense.

Here are just some of the criminal charges and convictions for the aliens arrested by ICE: 11,000 charges or convictions for sex crimes; 48,000 for assault; 13,000 for burglary; and 1,800 for killing people.

We're cracking down on sanctuary cities. Can you believe this? (Applause.) Where they protect — that's another one. Because we want our cities to be sanctuaries for law-abiding Americans, not for criminals. (Applause.)

And, by the way, the Senate Democrats and the House Democrats have totally abandoned DACA. They've total — they don't even talk to me about it. They have totally abandoned. You know, we get the reputation — like DACA, it's not Republican. We'll let me tell you, it is Republican, because we want to do something about DACA, get it solved after all these years.

The Democrats are being totally unresponsive. They don't want to do anything about DACA, I'm telling you. And it's very possible that DACA won't happen, and it's not because of the Republicans, it's going to be because of the Democrats. And frankly, you better elect more Republicans, folks, or it will never happen. (Applause.)

The Democrats voted in favor of sanctuary cities. In other words, they voted to protect criminal aliens instead of voting to protect the American citizens.

To secure our country, we are calling on Congress to build a great border wall to stop dangerous drugs and criminals from pouring into our country. (Applause.) And now they're willing to give us the wall, but they don't want to give us any of the laws to keep these people out.

So we're going to get the wall, but they don't want to give us all of the other — chain migration, lottery. Think of a lottery. You have a country. They put names in. You think they're giving us their good people? Not too many of you people are going to be in a lottery. So we pick out people. Then they turn out to be horrendous, and we don't understand why.

They're not giving us their best people, folks. They're not giving us — I mean, use your heads. They're giving us — it's a lottery. I don't want people coming into this country with a lottery. I want people coming into this country based on merit. Based on merit. (Applause.)

I want people, and we all want to be admitting people, who have skills, who can support themselves financially, who can contribute to our economy, who will love our people, and who will share our values, who will love our country. (Applause.)

I don't want people who drive a car at 100 miles an hour down the West Side Highway and kill 8 innocent victims, and destroy the lives of 14 more. Nobody talks about that. Nobody ever talks about the people that have been so horribly injured, who lose legs and arms, in Manhattan, where I used to spend my time.

I know it very well, the stretch along the West Side Highway. People run in order to stay in shape. They want to be healthy, they want to look good. They're running all the time; I see it. They run. We work in different ways. (Laughter.) But they run. No, but think of this — they run. And they're so — they want to be fit. They're proud people. They want to be fit, and they're running up and down West Side Highway. It's beautiful. It's a beautiful thing.

And this maniac takes a car going down the highway, and just turns to a right, and he kills eight. But he really badly wounded 12 to 14 other people.

So somebody think of it: Runs to stay in shape, leaves the house, is jogging along, working hard, ends up going home two months later with no leg or with no arm, or with two legs missing. Nobody ever talks about that. They talk about the people, rightfully, that were killed. But they don't talk about the people whose lives have been just changed — just changed. They don't talk about that.

This guy came in through chain migration and a part of the lottery system.

AUDIENCE: Booo —

THE PRESIDENT: They say 22 people came in with him. In other words, an aunt, an uncle, a grandfather, a mother, a father, whoever came in. But a lot of people came in. That's chain migration. Let's see how those people are doing, by the way.

We've got to change our way. Merit system. I want merit system. Because you know what's happening? All of these companies are coming into our country. They're all coming into our country. And when they come in, we need people that are going to work. I'm telling you, we need workers now. We need workers. (Applause.)

But when I walked in today, did anyone ever hear me do the snake during the campaign? Because I had five people outside say, “Could you do ‘The Snake'?” And I said, well, people have heard it. Who hasn't heard “The Snake”? You should read it anyways. (Laughs.) Let's do it anyway. I'll do it. All right? Should we do it? (Applause.)

Now, this was a rock-and-roll song — little amendments — a rock-and-roll song. But every time I do it, people — and you have to think of this in terms of immigration. We have to have great people come into our — I want people to come into our country. And I want people that are going to help us. And I don't want people that are going to come in and be accepting all of the gifts of our country for the next 50 years and contribute nothing. I don't want that, and you don't want that.

I want people that are going to help and people that are going to work for Chrysler, who is now moving from Mexico into Michigan, and so many other — and Apple, by the way. (Applause.) And Foxconn up in Wisconsin. They're going to need 25,000 workers. I want people that can come in, and get to work and work hard. Even if it means a learning period — that's fine.

But I want people that are going to come in and work. And I want people that love us and look at security. And they want you to be safe, and they want to be safe. I want great people coming into this country. I don't want people coming in the way they do now, because I want people that contribute.

So this is called “The Snake.” And think of it in terms of immigration. And you may love it, or you may say, isn't that terrible. Okay? And if you say, isn't that terrible, who cares? Because the way they treat me — that's peanuts compared to the way they treat me. Okay? (Laughter.) Immigration.

“On her way to work one morning, down the path along the lake, a tenderhearted woman saw a poor, half-hearted, frozen snake. His pretty colored skin had been all frosted with the dew. ‘Poor thing,' she cried, ‘I'll take you in, and I'll take care of you.'

‘Take me in, oh, tender woman. Take me in, for Heaven's sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman,' sighed the vicious snake.

She wrapped him up all cozy in a comforter of silk, and laid him by her fireside with some honey and some milk. She hurried home from work that night, and soon as she arrived, she found that pretty snake she'd taken in had been revived.

‘Take me in, oh, tender woman. Take me in for Heaven's sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman,' sighed the vicious snake.

She clutched him to her bosom, ‘You're so beautiful,' she cried. But if I hadn't brought you in by now, surely you would have died.'

She stroked his pretty skin again, and kissed and held him tight. But instead of saying thank you, that snake gave her a vicious bite.

‘Take me in, oh, tender woman. Take me in for Heaven's sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman,' sighed the vicious snake.

‘I saved you,' cried the woman. ‘And you've bitten me. Heaven's why? You know your bite is poisonous, and now I'm going to die.'

‘Oh, shut up, silly woman,' said the reptile with a grin. ‘You knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in.'” (Applause.)

And that's what we're doing with our country, folks. We're letting people in, and it's going to be a lot of trouble. It's only getting worse. But we're giving you protection like never before. Our law enforcement is doing a better job than we've ever done before. And we love our country. And we're going to take care of our country. Okay? We're going to take care of our country. (Applause.)

So just in finishing, our country is starting to do very well. Our economy is blazing. Jobs are at a record level. Jobs are so good. 2.7 million jobs created since the election. (Applause.) Unemployment claims have reached a 45-year low. (Applause.)

African American unemployment has reached the lowest level in our history. (Applause.) Hispanic unemployment has reached the lowest level in our history. (Applause.) Women — women unemployment is at the lowest level in 18 years. (Applause.) Wages are rising for the first time in many, many years. (Applause.)

Small business confidence is at a record high. And thanks to our massive tax cuts, millions of Americans are getting to keep a great percentage of their money instead of paying it to a government that throws it out the window. (Applause.)

So I just leave you with this: We have to fight Nancy Pelosi. They want to give your money away. They want to give your money away. They want to end your tax cuts. They want to do things that you wouldn't even believe, including taking your Second Amendment rights away. They will do that.

AUDIENCE: Booo —

THE PRESIDENT: So we have to get out there and we have to fight in '18 like never before — just the way you fought with us. Just the way you fought with us. You fought so hard, and you were so tough, and you were so smart. You were so smart. And you know what? I know for a fact you did the right thing, because we're looking at the numbers. And the numbers — even they have to give credit for the kind of numbers that we're producing. Nobody has ever seen anything like it. (Applause.)

Under my administration, the era of economic surrender is over. We're renegotiating trade deals that are so bad, whether it's NAFTA or whether it's World Trade Organization, which created China — that created — if you look at China, it was going along like this, then we opened, stupidly, this deal. And China has been like a rocket ship ever since.

And now, last year, we had almost a $500 billion trade deficit with China. We can't have that. We can't have that. I have great respect for President Xi, but we can't have that. We have to go, and we have to do what we have to do. We just can't let countries — as an example, Mexico. We have a $100 billion trade deficit with Mexico. What does that tell you? You know what it tells you? NAFTA is no good. It never was any good. But for some reason, nobody ever changed it. They emptied our factories — you got to see the car plants and the auto plants in Mexico. Like — you've never seen anything like it before.

I want those companies — and they're starting — I want them back here. I want them back here. They're going to come back here, too. (Applause.) And we want to make our neighbors happy. But we can't continuously have other nations taking advantage of the United States like never before. And this has gone on for a long time. This has gone on for longer — the last administration was a disaster, but this has gone on for much longer than the last administration. And we got to change it. We're going to change it.

So we're renegotiating deals. And you know what? Hate to say it, but if we can't make a fair deal for the United States, we will terminate the deal and we'll start all over again. (Applause.) We have to do it. (Applause.)

So, under my administration, and with your help — don't forget — you, many of you, were the forgotten people. You were the people that, when the polls came out, they didn't know that you existed. The Democrats are trying to figure out who you are, because they want to get you back. But you are people — we've had people that never voted, but they're great patriots — but they never saw anybody they wanted to vote for. Then they go to the election, they've got Trump-Pence, Trump-Pence. They got hats, they got all sorts of things. Trump over here — “Make America Great Again” hats. Right? (Applause.)

So our country is starting to do well. We are going to make it great, better, safer than it ever was before. The reason is you. This has been a great movement. They try like hell, they cannot stand what we've done. But we're doing the right thing. We're even doing the right thing for them. They just don't know it yet. (Applause.) They just don't know it yet.

Even the media — the media will absolutely support me sometime prior to the election. All those horrible people back there, they're going to support me. You know why? Because if somebody else won, their ratings would go down, they'd all be out of business. (Applause.) Nobody would watch. They'd all be out of business.

So I just want to tell you that we are going to win. I'd love you to get out there, work really hard for '18. We need more Republicans to keep the tax cuts and keep all of this going.

And I love you. I respect you. I appreciate everything you've done for the country. (Applause.)

AUDIENCE: USA! USA! USA!

THE PRESIDENT: I appreciate everything you've done.

I do want to say, because people have asked — North Korea — we imposed today the heaviest sanctions ever imposed on a country before. (Applause.)

And frankly, hopefully something positive can happen. We will see. But hopefully something positive can happen. But that just was announced, and I wanted to let you know. We have imposed the heaviest sanctions ever imposed.

So, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for everything. You have been incredible partners. (Applause.) Incredible partners. And I will let you know in the absolute strongest of terms, we're going to make America great again, and I will never, ever, ever let you down. Thank you very much. (Applause.) Thank you. (Applause.)

Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much. I am thrilled to be here. Thrilled.

(APPLAUSE)

And if you think that was an easy trip, you're wrong. But I am thrilled.

(LAUGHTER)

19th Boy Scout Jamboree, wow, and to address such a tremendous group. Boy, you have a lot of people here. The press will say it's about 200 people.

(LAUGHTER)

It looks like about 45,000 people. You set a record today.

(APPLAUSE)

You set a record. That's a great honor, believe me.

Tonight we put aside all of the policy fights in Washington, D.C. you've been hearing about with the fake news and all of that. We're going to put that…

(APPLAUSE)

We're going to put that aside. And instead we're going to talk about success, about how all of you amazing young Scouts can achieve your dreams, what to think of, what I've been thinking about. You want to achieve your dreams, I said, who the hell wants to speak about politics when I'm in front of the Boy Scouts? Right?

(APPLAUSE)

There are many great honors that come with the job of being president of the United States. But looking out at this incredible gathering of mostly young patriots. Mostly young. I'm especially proud to speak to you as the honorary president of the Boy Scouts of America.

(APPLAUSE)

CROWD: USA! USA! USA!

TRUMP: You are the young people of character, integrity who will serve as leaders of our communities and uphold the sacred values of our nation.

I want to thank Boy Scouts President Randall Stephenson, chief Scout executive Michael Surbaugh, Jamboree Chairman Ralph de la Vega and the thousands of volunteers who made this a life-changing experience for all of you. And when they asked me to be here, I said absolutely yes.

(APPLAUSE)

Finally—and we can't forgot these people—I especially want to salute the moms and the dads and troop leaders who are here tonight.

(APPLAUSE) Thank you for making scouting possible. Thank you, mom and dad, troop leaders.

When you volunteer for the Boy Scouts you are not only shaping young lives, you are shaping the future of America.

(APPLAUSE)

The United States has no better citizens than its Boy Scouts.

(APPLAUSE)

No better.

(APPLAUSE)

The values, traditions and skills you learn here will serve you throughout your lives. And just as importantly, they will serve your families, your cities, and in the future and in the present will serve your country.

(APPLAUSE)

The Scouts believe in putting America first.

(APPLAUSE)

You know, I go to Washington and I see all these politicians, and I see the swamp, and it's not a good place. In fact, today, I said we ought to change it from the word “swamp” to the word “cesspool” or perhaps to the word “sewer.”

(APPLAUSE)

But it's not good. Not good. And I see what's going on. And believe me, I'd much rather be with you, that I can tell you.

(APPLAUSE)

I'll tell you the reason that I love this, and the reason that I really wanted to be here, is because as president, I rely on former Boy Scouts every single day. And so do the American people.

It's amazing how many Boy Scouts we have at the highest level of our great government. Many of my top advisers in the White House were Scouts. Ten members of my cabinet were Scouts. Can you believe that? Ten.

(APPLAUSE)

Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is not only a Boy Scout, he is your former national president.

(APPLAUSE)

The vice president of the United States, Mike Pence—a good guy—was a Scout, and it meant so much to him.

(APPLAUSE)

Some of you here tonight might even have camped out in this yard when Mike was the governor of Indiana, but the scouting was very, very important.

And by the way, where are our Indiana scouts tonight?

(APPLAUSE)

I wonder if the television cameras will follow you? They don't doing that when they see these massive crowds. They don't like doing that.

Hi, folks.

(APPLAUSE)

There's a lot of love in this big, beautiful place. A lot of love. And a lot of love for our country. And a lot of love for our country.

Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke is here tonight.

Come here, Ryan.

(APPLAUSE)

Ryan is an Eagle Scout from Big Sky Country in Montana.

(APPLAUSE)

Pretty good.

And by the way, he is doing a fantastic job. He makes sure that we leave our national parks and federal lands better than we found them in the best scouting tradition.

So thank you very much, Ryan.

(APPLAUSE)

Secretary of Energy Rick Perry of Texas, an Eagle Scout from the great state.

(APPLAUSE)

The first time he came to the National Jamboree was in 1964. He was very young then. And Rick told me just a little while ago, it totally changed his life.

So, Rick, thank you very much for being here. And we're doing—we're doing a lot with energy.

(APPLAUSE) And very soon, Rick, we will be an energy exporter. Isn't that nice? An energy exporter.

(APPLAUSE)

In other words, we'll be selling our energy instead of buying it from everybody all over the globe. So that's good.

(APPLAUSE)

We will be energy dominant.

And I'll tell you what, the folks in West Virginia who were so nice to me, boy, have we kept our promise. We are going on and on. So we love West Virginia. We want to thank you.

Where's West Virginia by the way?

(APPLAUSE)

Thank you.

Secretary Tom Price is also here today. Dr. Price still lives the Scout oath, helping to keep millions of Americans strong and healthy as our secretary of Health and Human Services. And he's doing a great job. And hopefully he's going to gets the votes tomorrow to start our path toward killing this horrible thing known as Obamacare that's really hurting us.

(APPLAUSE)

CROWD: USA! USA! USA!

TRUMP: By the way, are you going to get the votes? He better get them. He better get them. Oh, he better. Otherwise I'll say, “Tom, you're fired.” I'll get somebody.

(APPLAUSE)

He better get Senator Capito to vote for it. He better get the other senators to vote for it. It's time.

You know, after seven years of saying repeal and replace Obamacare, we have a chance to now do it. They better do it. Hopefully they'll do it.

As we can see just by looking at our government, in America, Scouts lead the way. And another thing I've noticed—and I've noticed it all my life—there is a tremendous spirit with being a Scout, more so than almost anything I can think of. So whatever is going on, keep doing it. It's incredible to watch, believe me.

(APPLAUSE)

Each of these leaders will tell that you their road to American success—and you have to understand—their American success, and they are a great, great story, was paved with the patriotic American values and traditions they learned in the Boy Scouts. And some day, many years from now, when you look back on all of the adventures in your lives you will be able to say the same, I got my start as a Scout, just like these incredibly great people that are doing such a good job for our country. So that's going to happen.

(APPLAUSE)

Boy Scout values are American values. And great Boy Scouts become great, great Americans.

(APPLAUSE)

As the Scout law says, a scout is trustworthy, loyal—we could use some more loyalty I will tell that you that.

(CROWD CHANTING)

That was very impressive. You've heard that before. But here you learn the rewards of hard work and perseverance, never, ever give up. Never quit. Persevere. Never, ever quit. You learn the satisfaction of building a roaring campfire, reaching a mountain summit or earning a merit badge after mastering a certain skill. There's no better feeling than an achievement that you've earned with your own sweat, tears, resolve, hard work. There's nothing like it. Do you agree with that?

(APPLAUSE)

I'm waving to people back there so small I can't even see them. Man, this is a lot of people. Turn those cameras back there, please. That is so incredible.

By the way, what do you think the chances are that this incredible massive crowd, record setting, is going to be shown on television tonight? One percent or zero?

(APPLAUSE)

The fake media will say, “President Trump spoke”—you know what is—“President Trump spoke before a small crowd of Boy Scouts today.” That's some—that is some crowd. Fake media. Fake news.

Thank you. And I'm honored by that. By the way, all of you people that can't even see you, so thank you. I hope you can hear.

Through scouting you also learned to believe in yourself—so important—to have confidence in your ability and to take responsibility for your own life. When you face down new challenges—and you will have plenty of them—develop talents you never thought possible, and lead your teammates through daring trials, you discover that you can handle anything. And you learn it by being a Scout. It's great.

(APPLAUSE) You can do anything. You can be anything you want to be. But in order to succeed, you must find out what you love to do. You have to find your passion, no matter what they tell you. If you don't—I love you too. I don't know. Nice guy.

(APPLAUSE)

Hey, what am I going to do? He sounds like a nice person. He—he, he, he. I do. I do love you.

(CROWD CHANTING)

By the way, just a question, did President Obama ever come to a Jamboree?

(APPLAUSE)

And we'll be back. We'll be back. The answer is no. But we'll be back.

In life, in order to be successful—and you people are well on the road to success—you have to find out what makes you excited, what makes you want to get up each morning and go to work? You have to find it. If you love what you do and dedicate yourself to your work, then you will gain momentum? And look, you have to. You need the word “momentum.” You will gain that momentum. And each success will create another success. The word “momentum.”

I'll tell you a story that's very interesting for me. When I was young there was a man named William Levitt. You have some here. You have some in different states. Anybody ever hear of Levittown?

(APPLAUSE)

And he was a very successful man, became unbelievable—he was a home builder, became an unbelievable success, and got more and more successful. And he'd build homes, and at night he'd go to these major sites with teams of people, and he'd scour the sites for nails, and sawdust and small pieces of wood, and they cleaned the site, so when the workers came in the next morning, the sites would be spotless and clean, and he did it properly. And he did this for 20 years, and then he was offered a lot of money for his company, and he sold his company, for a tremendous amount of money, at the time especially. This is a long time ago. Sold his company for a tremendous amount of money.

And he went out and bought a big yacht, and he had a very interesting life. I won't go any more than that, because you're Boy Scouts so I'm not going to tell you what he did.

(CROWD CHANTING)

Should I tell you? Should I tell you?

(APPLAUSE)

You're Boy Scouts, but you know life. You know life.

So look at you. Who would think this is the Boy Scouts, right? So he had a very, very interesting life, and the company that bought his company was a big conglomerate, and they didn't know anything about building homes, and they didn't know anything about picking up the nails and the sawdust and selling it, and the scraps of wood. This was a big conglomerate based in New York City.

And after about a 10-year period, there were losing a lot with it. It didn't mean anything to them. And they couldn't sell it. So they called William Levitt up, and they said, would you like to buy back your company, and he said, yes, I would. He so badly wanted it. He got bored with this life of yachts, and sailing, and all of the things he did in the south of France and other places. You won't get bored, right? You know, truthfully, you're workers. You'll get bored too, believe me. Of course having a few good years like that isn't so bad.

But what happened is he bought back his company, and he bought back a lot of empty land, and he worked hard at getting zoning, and he worked hard on starting to develop, and in the end he failed, and he failed badly, lost all of his money. He went personally bankrupt, and he was now much older. And I saw him at a cocktail party. And it was very sad because the hottest people in New York were at this party. It was the party of Steve Ross—Steve Ross, who was one of the great people. He came up and discovered, really founded Time Warner, and he was a great guy. He had a lot of successful people at the party.

And I was doing well, so I got invited to the party. I was very young. And I go in, but I'm in the real estate business, and I see a hundred people, some of whom I recognize, and they're big in the entertainment business.

And I see sitting in the corner was a little old man who was all by himself. Nobody was talking to him. I immediately recognized that that man was the once great William Levitt, of Levittown, and I immediately went over. I wanted to talk to him more than the Hollywood, show business, communications people.

So I went over and talked to him, and I said, “Mr. Levitt, I'm Donald Trump.” He said, “I know.” I said, “Mr. Levitt, how are you doing?” He goes, “Not well, not well at all.” And I knew that. But he said, “Not well at all.” And he explained what was happening and how bad it's been and how hard it's been. And I said, “What exactly happened? Why did this happen to you? You're one of the greats ever in our industry. Why did this happen to you?”

And he said, “Donald, I lost my momentum. I lost my momentum.” A word you never hear when you're talking about success when some of these guys that never made 10 cents, they're on television giving you things about how you're going to be successful, and the only thing they ever did was a book and a tape. But I tell you—I'll tell you, it was very sad, and I never forgot that moment.

And I thought about it, and it's exactly true. He lost his momentum, meaning he took this period of time off, long, years, and then when he got back, he didn't have that same momentum.

In life, I always tell this to people, you have to know whether or not you continue to have the momentum. And if you don't have it, that's OK. Because you're going to go on, and you're going to learn and you're going to do things that are great. But you have to know about the word “momentum.”

But the big thing, never quit, never give up; do something you love. When you do something you love as a Scout, I see that you love it. But when you do something that you love, you'll never fail. What you're going to do is give it a shot again and again and again. You're ultimately going to be successful.

And remember this, you're not working. Because when you're doing something that you love, like I do—of course I love my business, but this is a little bit different. Who thought this was going to happen. We're, you know, having a good time. We're doing a good job.

(APPLAUSE)

Doing a good job. But when you do something that you love, remember this, it's not work. So you'll work 24/7. You're going to work all the time. And at the end of the year you're not really working. You don't think of it as work. When you're not doing something that you like or when you're forced into do something that you really don't like, that's called work, and it's hard work, and tedious work.

So as much as you can do something that you love, work hard and never ever give up, and you're going to be tremendously successful, tremendously successful.

(APPLAUSE)

Now, with that, I have to tell you our economy is doing great. Our stock market has picked up since the election, November 8th—do we remember that day? Was that a beautiful day?

(APPLAUSE)

What a day.

Do you remember that famous night on television, November 8th where they said, these dishonest people, where they said, there is no path to victory for Donald Trump. They forgot about the forgotten people.

By the way, they're not forgetting about the forgotten people anymore. They're going crazy trying to figure it out, but I told them, far too late; it's far too late.

But you remember that incredible night with the maps, and the Republicans are red and the Democrats are blue, and that map was so red it was unbelievable. And they didn't know what to say.

(APPLAUSE) And you know, we have a tremendous disadvantage in the Electoral College. Popular vote is much easier. We have—because New York, California, Illinois, you have to practically run the East Coast. And we did. We won Florida. We won South Carolina. We won North Carolina. We won Pennsylvania.

(APPLAUSE)

We won and won. So when they said, there is no way to victory; there is no way to 270. You know I went to Maine four times because it's one vote, and we won. We won. One vote. I went there because I kept hearing we're at 269. But then Wisconsin came in. Many, many years. Michigan came in.

(APPLAUSE)

So—and we worked hard there. You know, my opponent didn't work hard there, because she was told…

(BOOING)

She was told she was going to win Michigan, and I said, well, wait a minute. The car industry is moving to Mexico. Why is she going to move—she's there. Why are they allowing it to move? And by the way, do you see those car industry—do you see what's happening? They're coming back to Michigan. They're coming back to Ohio. They're starting to peel back in.

(APPLAUSE)

And we go to Wisconsin, now, Wisconsin hadn't been won in many, many years by a Republican. But we go to Wisconsin, and we had tremendous crowds. And I'd leave these massive crowds, I'd say, why are we going to lose this state?

The polls, that's also fake news. They're fake polls. But the polls are saying—but we won Wisconsin.

(APPLAUSE)

So I have to tell you, what we did, in all fairness, is an unbelievable tribute to you and all of the other millions and millions of people that came out and voted for make America great again.

(APPLAUSE)

And I'll tell you what, we are indeed making America great again.

CROWD: USA! USA! USA!

TRUMP: And I'll tell you what, we are indeed making America great again. What's going on is incredible.

(APPLAUSE)

We had the best jobs report in 16 years. The stock market on a daily basis is hitting an all-time high.

We're going to be bringing back very soon trillions of dollars from companies that can't get their money back into this country, and that money is going to be used to help rebuild America. We're doing things that nobody ever thought was possible, and we've just started. It's just the beginning, believe me.

(APPLAUSE)

You know, in the Boy Scouts you learn right from wrong, correct? You learn to contribute to your communities, to take pride in your nation, and to seek out opportunities to serve. You pledge to help other people at all times.

(APPLAUSE)

In the Scout oath, you pledge on your honor to do your best and to do your duty to God and your country.

(APPLAUSE)

And by the way, under the Trump administration you'll be saying “Merry Christmas” again when you go shopping, believe me.

(APPLAUSE)

Merry Christmas.

They've been downplaying that little beautiful phrase. You're going to be saying “Merry Christmas” again, folks.

(APPLAUSE)

But the words “duty,” “country” and “God” are beautiful words. In other words, basically what you're doing is you're pledging to be a great American patriot.

(APPLAUSE)

For more than a century that is exactly what our Boy Scouts have been. Last year you gave more than 15 million hours of service to helping people in your communities. Incredible. That's an incredible stat.

(APPLAUSE)

All of you here tonight will contribute more than 100,000 hours of service by the end of this Jamboree—100,000.

(APPLAUSE)

When natural disaster strikes, when people face hardship, when the beauty and glory of our outdoor spaces must be restored and taken care of, America turns to the Boy Scouts because we know that the Boy Scouts never ever, ever let us down.

(APPLAUSE)

Just like you know you can count on me, we know we can count on you, because we know the values that you live by.

(APPLAUSE)

Your values are the same values that have always kept America strong, proud and free.

And by the way, do you see the billions and billions and billions of additional money that we're putting back into our military? Billions of dollars.

(APPLAUSE)

New planes, new ships, great equipment for our people that are so great to us. We love our vets. We love our soldiers. And we love our police, by the way.

(APPLAUSE)

Firemen, police. We love our police. Those are all special people. Uniformed services.

Two days ago I traveled to Norfolk, Virginia to commission an American aircraft carrier into the fleet of the United States Navy.

(APPLAUSE)

It's the newest, largest and most advanced aircraft carrier anywhere in the world, and it's named for an Eagle Scout—the USS Gerald R. Ford.

(APPLAUSE)

Everywhere it sails that great Scout's name will be feared and revered, because that ship will be a symbol of American power, prestige and strength.

(APPLAUSE)

Our nation honors President Gerald R. Ford today because he lived his life the scouting way. Boy Scouts celebrate American patriots, especially the brave members of our Armed Forces. Thank you very much.

(APPLAUSE)

Thank you. Thank you.

(APPLAUSE)

American hearts are warmed every year when we read about Boy Scouts placing thousands and thousands of flags next to veterans' grave sites all across the country. By honoring our heroes, you help to ensure that their memory never, ever dies. You should take great pride in the example you set for every citizen of our country to follow.

(APPLAUSE)

Generations of American Boy Scouts have sworn the same oath and lived according to the same law. You inherit a noble American tradition. And as you embark on your lives, never cease to be proud of you who you are and the principles you hold dear and stand by. Wear your values as your badge of honor. What you've done few have done before you. What you've done is incredible. What you've done is admired by all. So I want to congratulate you, Boy Scouts.

(APPLAUSE)

Let your scouting oath guide your path from this day forward. Remember your duty, honor your history, take care of the people God put into your life, and love and cherish your great country.

(APPLAUSE)

You are very special people. You're special in the lives of America. You're special to me. But if you do what we say, I promise you that you will live scouting's adventure every single day of your life, and you will win, win, win, and help people in doing so.

(APPLAUSE)

Your lives will have meaning, and purpose and joy. You will become leaders, and you will inspire others to achieve the dreams they once thought were totally impossible. Things that you said could never, ever happen are already happening for you. And if you do these things, and if you refuse to give in to doubt or to fear, then you will help to make America great again, you will be proud of yourself, be proud of the uniform you wear, and be proud of the country you love.

(APPLAUSE)

CROWD: USA! USA! USA!

TRUMP: And never, ever forget, America is proud of you.

(APPLAUSE)

This is a very, very special occasion for me. I've known so many Scouts over the years. Winners. I've known so many great people. They've been taught so well, and they love the heritage. But this is very special for me.

And I just want to end by saying, very importantly, God bless you. God bless the Boy Scouts. God Bless the United States of America. Go out, have a great time in life, compete, and go out and show me that there is nobody, nobody like a Boy Scout.

(APPLAUSE)

Thank you very much, everybody. (APPLAUSE)

Thank you very much.

(APPLAUSE)

Thank you.

(APPLAUSE)

Thank you very much

(APPLAUSE)

Hello Rutgers!  (Applause.)  R-U rah-rah!  (Applause.)  Thank you so much.  Thank you.  Everybody, please have a seat.  Thank you, President Barchi, for that introduction. Let me congratulate my extraordinarily worthy fellow honorary Scarlet Knights, Dr. Burnell and Bill Moyers.  

Matthew, good job.  (Applause.)  If you are interested, we can talk after this.  (Applause.)        

One of the perks of my job is honorary degrees.  (Laughter.) But I have to tell you, it impresses nobody in my house.  (Laughter.)  Now Malia and Sasha just say, “Okay, Dr. Dad, we'll see you later.  Can we have some money?”  (Laughter.) 

To the Board of Governors; to Chairman Brown; to Lieutenant Governor Guadagno; Mayor Cahill; Mayor Wahler, members of Congress, Rutgers administrators, faculty, staff, friends, and family -- thank you for the honor of joining you for the 250th anniversary of this remarkable institution.  (Applause.)  But most of all, congratulations to the Class of 2016!  (Applause.)    
I come here for a simple reason -- to finally settle this pork roll vs. Taylor ham question.  (Laughter and applause.)  I'm just kidding.  (Laughter.)  There's not much I'm afraid to take on in my final year of office, but I know better than to get in the middle of that debate.  (Laughter.)   

The truth is, Rutgers, I came here because you asked.  (Applause.)  Now, it's true that a lot of schools invite me to their commencement every year.  But you are the first to launch a three-year campaign.  (Laughter.)  Emails, letters, tweets, YouTube videos.  I even got three notes from the grandmother of your student body president.  (Laughter.)  And I have to say that really sealed the deal.  That was smart, because I have a soft spot for grandmas.  (Laughter.)   

So I'm here, off Exit 9, on the banks of the Old Raritan -- (applause) -- at the site of one of the original nine colonial colleges.  (Applause.)  Winners of the first-ever college football game.  (Applause.)  One of the newest members of the Big Ten.  (Applause.)  Home of what I understand to be a Grease Truck for a Fat Sandwich.  (Applause.)  Mozzarella sticks and chicken fingers on your cheesesteaks -- (applause.)  I'm sure Michelle would approve.  (Laughter.)    

But somehow, you have survived such death-defying acts.  (Laughter.)  You also survived the daily jockeying for buses, from Livingston to Busch, to Cook, to Douglass, and back again.  (Applause.)  I suspect that a few of you are trying to survive this afternoon, after a late night at Olde Queens.  (Applause.)  You know who you are.  (Laughter.)     

But, however you got here, you made it.  You made it.  Today, you join a long line of Scarlet Knights whose energy and intellect have lifted this university to heights its founders could not have imagined.  Two hundred and fifty years ago, when America was still just an idea, a charter from the Royal Governor -- Ben Franklin's son -- established Queen's College.  A few years later, a handful of students gathered in a converted tavern for the first class.  And from that first class in a pub, Rutgers has evolved into one of the finest research institutions in America.  (Applause.)    

This is a place where you 3D-print prosthetic hands for children, and devise rooftop wind arrays that can power entire office buildings with clean, renewable energy.  Every day, tens of thousands of students come here, to this intellectual melting pot, where ideas and cultures flow together among what might just be America's most diverse student body.  (Applause.)  Here in New Brunswick, you can debate philosophy with a classmate from South Asia in one class, and then strike up a conversation on the EE Bus with a first-generation Latina student from Jersey City, before sitting down for your psych group project with a veteran who's going to school on the Post-9/11 GI Bill.  (Applause.)  

America converges here.  And in so many ways, the history of Rutgers mirrors the evolution of America -- the course by which we became bigger, stronger, and richer and more dynamic, and a more inclusive nation.  

But America's progress has never been smooth or steady.  Progress doesn't travel in a straight line.  It zigs and zags in fits and starts.  Progress in America has been hard and contentious, and sometimes bloody.  It remains uneven and at times, for every two steps forward, it feels like we take one step back.  

Now, for some of you, this may sound like your college career.  (Laughter.)  It sounds like mine, anyway.  (Laughter.)  Which makes sense, because measured against the whole of human history, America remains a very young nation -- younger, even, than this university.

But progress is bumpy.  It always has been.  But because of dreamers and innovators and strivers and activists, progress has been this nation's hallmark.  I'm fond of quoting Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., who said, “The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends towards justice.”  (Applause.)  It bends towards justice.  I believe that.  But I also believe that the arc of our nation, the arc of the world does not bend towards justice, or freedom, or equality, or prosperity on its own.  It depends on us, on the choices we make, particularly at certain inflection points in history; particularly when big changes are happening and everything seems up for grabs.

And, Class of 2016, you are graduating at such an inflection point.  Since the start of this new millennium, you've already witnessed horrific terrorist attacks, and war, and a Great Recession.  You've seen economic and technological and cultural shifts that are profoundly altering how we work and how we communicate, how we live, how we form families.  The pace of change is not subsiding; it is accelerating.  And these changes offer not only great opportunity, but also great peril. 

Fortunately, your generation has everything it takes to lead this country toward a brighter future.  I'm confident that you can make the right choices -- away from fear and division and paralysis, and toward cooperation and innovation and hope.  (Applause.)  Now, partly, I'm confident because, on average, you're smarter and better educated than my generation -- although we probably had better penmanship -- (laughter) -- and were certainly better spellers.  We did not have spell-check back in my day.  You're not only better educated, you've been more exposed to the world, more exposed to other cultures.  You're more diverse.  You're more environmentally conscious.  You have a healthy skepticism for conventional wisdom.  

So you've got the tools to lead us.  And precisely because I have so much confidence in you, I'm not going to spend the remainder of my time telling you exactly how you're going to make the world better.  You'll figure it out.  You'll look at things with fresher eyes, unencumbered by the biases and blind spots and inertia and general crankiness of your parents and grandparents and old heads like me.  But I do have a couple of suggestions that you may find useful as you go out there and conquer the world. 

Point number one:  When you hear someone longing for the “good old days,” take it with a grain of salt.  (Laughter and applause.)  Take it with a grain of salt.  We live in a great nation and we are rightly proud of our history.  We are beneficiaries of the labor and the grit and the courage of generations who came before.  But I guess it's part of human nature, especially in times of change and uncertainty, to want to look backwards and long for some imaginary past when everything worked, and the economy hummed, and all politicians were wise, and every kid was well-mannered, and America pretty much did whatever it wanted around the world.  

Guess what.  It ain't so.  (Laughter.)  The “good old days” weren't that great.  Yes, there have been some stretches in our history where the economy grew much faster, or when government ran more smoothly.  There were moments when, immediately after World War II, for example, or the end of the Cold War, when the world bent more easily to our will.  But those are sporadic, those moments, those episodes.  In fact, by almost every measure, America is better, and the world is better, than it was 50 years ago, or 30 years ago, or even eight years ago.  (Applause.)    

And by the way, I'm not -- set aside 150 years ago, pre-Civil War -- there's a whole bunch of stuff there we could talk about.  Set aside life in the ‘50s, when women and people of color were systematically excluded from big chunks of American life.  Since I graduated, in 1983 -- which isn't that long ago -- (laughter) -- I'm just saying.  Since I graduated, crime rates, teenage pregnancy, the share of Americans living in poverty -- they're all down.  The share of Americans with college educations have gone way up.  Our life expectancy has, as well.  Blacks and Latinos have risen up the ranks in business and politics.  (Applause.)  More women are in the workforce.  (Applause.)  They're earning more money -- although it's long past time that we passed laws to make sure that women are getting the same pay for the same work as men.  (Applause.)    

Meanwhile, in the eight years since most of you started high school, we're also better off.  You and your fellow graduates are entering the job market with better prospects than any time since 2007.  Twenty million more Americans know the financial security of health insurance.  We're less dependent on foreign oil.  We've doubled the production of clean energy.  We have cut the high school dropout rate.  We've cut the deficit by two-thirds.  Marriage equality is the law of the land.  (Applause.)    

And just as America is better, the world is better than when I graduated.  Since I graduated, an Iron Curtain fell, apartheid ended.  There's more democracy.  We virtually eliminated certain diseases like polio.  We've cut extreme poverty drastically.  We've cut infant mortality by an enormous amount.  (Applause.)    
Now, I say all these things not to make you complacent.  We've got a bunch of big problems to solve.  But I say it to point out that change has been a constant in our history.  And the reason America is better is because we didn't look backwards we didn't fear the future.  We seized the future and made it our own.  And that's exactly why it's always been young people like you that have brought about big change -- because you don't fear the future.  

That leads me to my second point:  The world is more interconnected than ever before, and it's becoming more connected every day.  Building walls won't change that.  (Applause.)    

Look, as President, my first responsibility is always the security and prosperity of the United States.  And as citizens, we all rightly put our country first.  But if the past two decades have taught us anything, it's that the biggest challenges we face cannot be solved in isolation.  (Applause.)  When overseas states start falling apart, they become breeding grounds for terrorists and ideologies of nihilism and despair that ultimately can reach our shores.  When developing countries don't have functioning health systems, epidemics like Zika or Ebola can spread and threaten Americans, too.  And a wall won't stop that. (Applause.)    

If we want to close loopholes that allow large corporations and wealthy individuals to avoid paying their fair share of taxes, we've got to have the cooperation of other countries in a global financial system to help enforce financial laws.  The point is, to help ourselves we've got to help others -- (applause) -- not pull up the drawbridge and try to keep the world out. (Applause.)   

And engagement does not just mean deploying our military.  There are times where we must take military action to protect ourselves and our allies, and we are in awe of and we are grateful for the men and women who make up the finest fighting force the world has ever known.  (Applause.)  But I worry if we think that the entire burden of our engagement with the world is up to the 1 percent who serve in our military, and the rest of us can just sit back and do nothing.  They can't shoulder the entire burden.  And engagement means using all the levers of our national power, and rallying the world to take on our shared challenges.  

You look at something like trade, for example.  We live in an age of global supply chains, and cargo ships that crisscross oceans, and online commerce that can render borders obsolete.  And a lot of folks have legitimate concerns with the way globalization has progressed -- that's one of the changes that's been taking place -- jobs shipped overseas, trade deals that sometimes put workers and businesses at a disadvantage.  But the answer isn't to stop trading with other countries.  In this global economy, that's not even possible.  The answer is to do trade the right way, by negotiating with other countries so that they raise their labor standards and their environmental standards; and we make sure they don't impose unfair tariffs on American goods or steal American intellectual property.  That's how we make sure that international rules are consistent with our values -- including human rights.  And ultimately, that's how we help raise wages here in America.  That's how we help our workers compete on a level playing field.  

Building walls won't do that. (Applause.)  It won't boost our economy, and it won't enhance our security either.  Isolating or disparaging Muslims, suggesting that they should be treated differently when it comes to entering this country -- (applause) -- that is not just a betrayal of our values -- (applause) -- that's not just a betrayal of who we are, it would alienate the very communities at home and abroad who are our most important partners in the fight against violent extremism.   Suggesting that we can build an endless wall along our borders, and blame our challenges on immigrants -- that doesn't just run counter to our history as the world's melting pot; it contradicts the evidence that our growth and our innovation and our dynamism has always been spurred by our ability to attract strivers from every corner of the globe.  That's how we became America.  Why would we want to stop it now?  (Applause.)    

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Four more years!

THE PRESIDENT:  Can't do it.  (Laughter.) 

Which brings me to my third point:  Facts, evidence, reason, logic, an understanding of science -- these are good things.  (Applause.)  These are qualities you want in people making policy.  These are qualities you want to continue to cultivate in yourselves as citizens.  (Applause.)  That might seem obvious. (Laughter.)  That's why we honor Bill Moyers or Dr. Burnell.

We traditionally have valued those things.  But if you were listening to today's political debate, you might wonder where this strain of anti-intellectualism came from.  (Applause.)  So, Class of 2016, let me be as clear as I can be.  In politics and in life, ignorance is not a virtue.  (Applause.)  It's not cool to not know what you're talking about.  (Applause.)  That's not keeping it real, or telling it like it is.  (Laughter.)  That's not challenging political correctness.  That's just not knowing what you're talking about.  (Applause.)  And yet, we've become confused about this.          

Look, our nation's Founders -- Franklin, Madison, Hamilton, Jefferson -- they were born of the Enlightenment.  They sought to escape superstition, and sectarianism, and tribalism, and no-nothingness.  (Applause.)  They believed in rational thought and experimentation, and the capacity of informed citizens to master our own fates.  That is embedded in our constitutional design.  That spirit informed our inventors and our explorers, the Edisons and the Wright Brothers, and the George Washington Carvers and the Grace Hoppers, and the Norman Borlaugs and the Steve Jobses.  That's what built this country.

And today, in every phone in one of your pockets -- (laughter) -- we have access to more information than at any time in human history, at a touch of a button.  But, ironically, the flood of information hasn't made us more discerning of the truth. In some ways, it's just made us more confident in our ignorance. (Applause.)  We assume whatever is on the web must be true.  We search for sites that just reinforce our own predispositions. Opinions masquerade as facts.  The wildest conspiracy theories are taken for gospel.  

Now, understand, I am sure you've learned during your years of college -- and if not, you will learn soon -- that there are a whole lot of folks who are book smart and have no common sense.  (Applause.)  That's the truth.  You'll meet them if you haven't already.  (Laughter.)  So the fact that they've got a fancy degree -- you got to talk to them to see whether they know what they're talking about.  (Laughter.)  Qualities like kindness and compassion, honesty, hard work -- they often matter more than technical skills or know-how.  (Applause.)    

But when our leaders express a disdain for facts, when they're not held accountable for repeating falsehoods and just making stuff up, while actual experts are dismissed as elitists, then we've got a problem.  (Applause.)  

You know, it's interesting that if we get sick, we actually want to make sure the doctors have gone to medical school, they know what they're talking about.  (Applause.)  If we get on a plane, we say we really want a pilot to be able to pilot the plane.  (Laughter.)  And yet, in our public lives, we certainly think, “I don't want somebody who's done it before.”  (Laughter and applause.)  The rejection of facts, the rejection of reason and science -- that is the path to decline.  It calls to mind the words of Carl Sagan, who graduated high school here in New Jersey -- (applause) -- he said:  “We can judge our progress by the courage of our questions and the depths of our answers, our willingness to embrace what is true rather than what feels good.” 

The debate around climate change is a perfect example of this.  Now, I recognize it doesn't feel like the planet is warmer right now.  (Laughter.)  I understand.  There was hail when I landed in Newark.  (Laughter.)  (The wind starts blowing hard.)  (Laughter.)   But think about the climate change issue.  Every day, there are officials in high office with responsibilities who mock the overwhelming consensus of the world's scientists that human activities and the release of carbon dioxide and methane and other substances are altering our climate in profound and dangerous ways.  

A while back, you may have seen a United States senator trotted out a snowball during a floor speech in the middle of winter as “proof” that the world was not warming.  (Laughter.)  I mean, listen, climate change is not something subject to political spin.  There is evidence.  There are facts.  We can see it happening right now.  (Applause.)  If we don't act, if we don't follow through on the progress we made in Paris, the progress we've been making here at home, your generation will feel the brunt of this catastrophe.  

So it's up to you to insist upon and shape an informed debate.  Imagine if Benjamin Franklin had seen that senator with the snowball, what he would think.  Imagine if your 5th grade science teacher had seen that.  (Laughter.)  He'd get a D.  (Laughter.)  And he's a senator!  (Laughter.)

Look, I'm not suggesting that cold analysis and hard data are ultimately more important in life than passion, or faith, or love, or loyalty.  I am suggesting that those highest expressions of our humanity can only flourish when our economy functions well, and proposed budgets add up, and our environment is protected.  And to accomplish those things, to make collective decisions on behalf of a common good, we have to use our heads.  We have to agree that facts and evidence matter.  And we got to hold our leaders and ourselves accountable to know what the heck they're talking about.  (Applause.)    

All right.  I only have two more points.  I know it's getting cold and you guys have to graduate.  (Laughter.)  Point four:  Have faith in democracy.  Look, I know it's not always pretty.   Really, I know.  (Laughter.)  I've been living it.  But it's how, bit by bit, generation by generation, we have made progress in this nation.  That's how we banned child labor.  That's how we cleaned up our air and our water.  That's how we passed programs like Social Security and Medicare that lifted millions of seniors out of poverty.  (Applause.)    

None of these changes happened overnight.  They didn't happen because some charismatic leader got everybody suddenly to agree on everything.  It didn't happen because some massive political revolution occurred.  It actually happened over the course of years of advocacy, and organizing, and alliance-building, and deal-making, and the changing of public opinion.  It happened because ordinary Americans who cared participated in the political process.   

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Because of you!  (Applause.)  

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, that's nice.  I mean, I helped, but -- (applause.)

Look, if you want to change this country for the better, you better start participating.  I'll give you an example on a lot of people's minds right now -- and that's the growing inequality in our economy.  Over much of the last century, we've unleashed the strongest economic engine the world has ever seen, but over the past few decades, our economy has become more and more unequal.  The top 10 percent of earners now take in half of all income in the U.S.  In the past, it used to be a top CEO made 20 or 30 times the income of the average worker.  Today, it's 300 times more.  And wages aren't rising fast enough for millions of hardworking families.  

Now, if we want to reverse those trends, there are a bunch of policies that would make a real difference.  We can raise the minimum wage.  (Applause.)  We can modernize our infrastructure. We can invest in early childhood education.  We can make college more affordable.  (Applause.)  We can close tax loopholes on hedge fund managers and take that money and give tax breaks to help families with child care or retirement.  And if we did these things, then we'd help to restore the sense that hard work is rewarded and we could build an economy that truly works for everybody.  (Applause.)  

Now, the reason some of these things have not happened, even though the majority of people approve of them, is really simple. It's not because I wasn't proposing them.  It wasn't because the facts and the evidence showed they wouldn't work.  It was because a huge chunk of Americans, especially young people, do not vote.  
In 2014, voter turnout was the lowest since World War II.  Fewer than one in five young people showed up to vote -- 2014.  And the four who stayed home determined the course of this country just as much as the single one who voted.  Because apathy has consequences.  It determines who our Congress is.  It determines what policies they prioritize.  It even, for example, determines whether a really highly qualified Supreme Court nominee receives the courtesy of a hearing and a vote in the United States Senate.  (Applause.)    

And, yes, big money in politics is a huge problem.  We've got to reduce its influence.  Yes, special interests and lobbyists have disproportionate access to the corridors of power. But, contrary to what we hear sometimes from both the left as well as the right, the system isn't as rigged as you think, and it certainly is not as hopeless as you think.  Politicians care about being elected, and they especially care about being reelected.  And if you vote and you elect a majority that represents your views, you will get what you want.  And if you opt out, or stop paying attention, you won't.  It's that simple. (Applause.)  It's not that complicated. 

Now, one of the reasons that people don't vote is because they don't see the changes they were looking for right away.  Well, guess what -- none of the great strides in our history happened right away.  It took Thurgood Marshall and the NAACP decades to win Brown v. Board of Education; and then another decade after that to secure the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act.  (Applause.)  And it took more time after that for it to start working.  It took a proud daughter of New Jersey, Alice Paul, years of organizing marches and hunger strikes and protests, and drafting hundreds of pieces of legislation, and writing letters and giving speeches, and working with congressional leaders before she and other suffragettes finally helped win women the right to vote.  (Applause.)  

Each stage along the way required compromise.  Sometimes you took half a loaf.  You forged allies.  Sometimes you lost on an issue, and then you came back to fight another day.  That's how democracy works.  So you've got to be committed to participating not just if you get immediate gratification, but you got to be a citizen full-time, all the time.    

And if participation means voting, and it means compromise, and organizing and advocacy, it also means listening to those who don't agree with you.  I know a couple years ago, folks on this campus got upset that Condoleezza Rice was supposed to speak at a commencement.  Now, I don't think it's a secret that I disagree with many of the foreign policies of Dr. Rice and the previous administration.  But the notion that this community or the country would be better served by not hearing from a former Secretary of State, or shutting out what she had to say -- I believe that's misguided.  (Applause.)  I don't think that's how democracy works best, when we're not even willing to listen to each other.  (Applause.)  I believe that's misguided.  

If you disagree with somebody, bring them in -- (applause) -- and ask them tough questions.  Hold their feet to the fire.  Make them defend their positions.  (Applause.)  If somebody has got a bad or offensive idea, prove it wrong.  Engage it.  Debate it.  Stand up for what you believe in.  (Applause.)  Don't be scared to take somebody on.  Don't feel like you got to shut your ears off because you're too fragile and somebody might offend your sensibilities.  Go at them if they're not making any sense. Use your logic and reason and words.  And by doing so, you'll strengthen your own position, and you'll hone your arguments.  And maybe you'll learn something and realize you don't know everything.  And you may have a new understanding not only about what your opponents believe but maybe what you believe.  Either way, you win.  And more importantly, our democracy wins.  (Applause.)  

So, anyway, all right.  That's it, Class of 2016 -- (laughter) -- a few suggestions on how you can change the world. Except maybe I've got one last suggestion.  (Applause.)  Just one.  And that is, gear yourself for the long haul.  Whatever path you choose -- business, nonprofits, government, education, health care, the arts -- whatever it is, you're going to have some setbacks.  You will deal occasionally with foolish people.  You will be frustrated.  You'll have a boss that's not great.  You won't always get everything you want -- at least not as fast as you want it.  So you have to stick with it.  You have to be persistent.  And success, however small, however incomplete, success is still success.  I always tell my daughters, you know, better is good.  It may not be perfect, it may not be great, but it's good.  That's how progress happens -- in societies and in our own lives.  

So don't lose hope if sometimes you hit a roadblock.  Don't lose hope in the face of naysayers.  And certainly don't let resistance make you cynical.  Cynicism is so easy, and cynics don't accomplish much.  As a friend of mine who happens to be from New Jersey, a guy named Bruce Springsteen, once sang -- (applause) -- “they spend their lives waiting for a moment that just don't come.”  Don't let that be you.  Don't waste your time waiting.  

If you doubt you can make a difference, look at the impact some of your fellow graduates are already making.  Look at what Matthew is doing.  Look at somebody like Yasmin Ramadan, who began organizing anti-bullying assemblies when she was 10 years old to help kids handle bias and discrimination, and here at Rutgers, helped found the Muslim Public Relations Council to work with administrators and police to promote inclusion.  (Applause.)    

Look at somebody like Madison Little, who grew up dealing with some health issues, and started wondering what his care would have been like if he lived someplace else, and so, here at Rutgers, he took charge of a student nonprofit and worked with folks in Australia and Cambodia and Uganda to address the AIDS epidemic.  “Our generation has so much energy to adapt and impact the world,” he said.  “My peers give me a lot of hope that we'll overcome the obstacles we face in society.”

That's you!  Is it any wonder that I am optimistic?  Throughout our history, a new generation of Americans has reached up and bent the arc of history in the direction of more freedom, and more opportunity, and more justice.  And, Class of 2016, it is your turn now -- (applause) -- to shape our nation's destiny, as well as your own.  

So get to work.  Make sure the next 250 years are better than the last.  (Applause.)  

Good luck.  God bless you.  God bless this country we love.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  

Thank you to our First Lady, Melania, who has been so incredible. (Applause.) Thank you. And we are blessed to have you as our First Lady. Really are.

It's great to be back in the beautiful state of New Hampshire. (Applause.) I don't know if you remember, but this is the first place I came for the primaries. (Applause.) And this is the room right here. So I like this room. This has been a good room.

We're honored to be joined by your wonderful and very talented Governor, Chris Sununu. Chris, thank you. (Applause.) Thank you, Chris. Oh, and there's another talented governor. Governor Sununu, stand up. (Applause.) I have to tell you, there was nobody tougher on Trump at the beginning. (Laughter.) It's true. There was nobody on television tougher. And then we met each other and we liked each other, and he went from the worst to the best. Governor, thank you. (Laughs.) I mean that, too. Thank you.

I want to thank also Attorney General Sessions, and Secretary—thank you, Jeff.—(applause)—Secretary Azar, Secretary Nielsen, and Surgeon General Adams for joining us at this very important event.

The First Lady and I just visited the Manchester Fire Department Safe Station. Talking about it all over the country. The Fire Chief, Dan Goonan, and all of the first responders with us today, thank you. You've been incredible, and you're saving American lives.

We're also joined by a number of law enforcement officers who we love. Our police, DEA, ICE, Border Patrol agents, and Customs officers work night and day to keep drugs out of our communities and criminals off of our streets. (Applause.) So today, we thank you, we honor you, and we want you to know that we will always have your backs 100 percent. Thank you very much, law enforcement. Thank you. (Applause.)

I especially want to acknowledge all of the families with us today who have endured terrible hardships because of the opioid crisis, and especially those who have lost precious loved ones. I've been saying this for a long time, and it all started right here in New Hampshire, because I see what you're going through. About as bad as there is anywhere in the country. And I said I'd be back, and we are back. And we're pouring a lot of money and a lot of talent into this horrible problem. And we pledge to honor the memory of those you lost with action and determination and resolve. We'll get it. We will not rest until the end. And I will tell you, this scourge of drug addiction in America will stop. It will stop. (Applause.)

Every day, 116 Americans die from an opioid-related overdose. In New Hampshire, the overdose, really, death rate—I mean, can you believe this? The death rate is double the national average. It's got difficulties like people wouldn't believe.

Defeating this epidemic will require the commitment of every state, local, and federal agency. Failure is not an option. Addiction is not our future. We will liberate our country from this crisis. Never been like this. Hundreds of years—never been like this. And we will raise a drug-free generation of American children.

Last October, we declared the opioid crisis a public health emergency. Should have been done a long time before. Since then, we've worked with Congress to ensure at least 6 billion additional dollars, going through right now, in new funding in 2018 and 2019 to combat the opioid crisis. And we will be spending the most money ever on the opioid crisis. (Applause.)

On our most recent National Prescription Drug Take Back Day, people across the country turned in more than 900,000 pounds of unused or expired prescription drugs—more than the weight of three Boeing 757s.

Our Customs and Border Protection—and these people, the job they do is incredible—seized nearly 1,500 pounds of fentanyl last year, nearly three times the amount seized in 2016. And I told China: Don't send it. (Applause.) And I told Mexico: Don't send it. Don't send it.

In 2017, ICE arrested criminal aliens with 76,000 charges and convictions for dangerous drug crimes.

Last year, the Department of Justice prosecuted more than 3,000 defendants in cases involving opioid, all of the trafficking, and the related crimes—3,000 cases—including a pharmacist, a physician's assistant, and an opioid trafficker, each charged with committing serious drug crimes in New Hampshire.

Whether you are a dealer or doctor or trafficker or a manufacturer, if you break the law and illegally peddle these deadly poisons, we will find you, we will arrest you, and we will hold you accountable. (Applause.) Thank you.

Here in New Hampshire, I applaud all of the Drug Enforcement Agents and law enforcement officers who recently coordinated Operation Granite Shield, an 18-hour enforcement action targeting drug traffickers that resulted in the arrest of 151 people. These are terrible people, and we have to get tough on those people, because we can have all the Blue Ribbon committees we want, but if we don't get tough on the drug dealers, we're wasting our time. Just remember that. We're wasting our time. And that toughness includes the death penalty. (Applause.)

You know, it's an amazing thing. Some of these drug dealers will kill thousands of people during their lifetime—thousands of people—and destroy many more lives than that. But they will kill thousands of people during their lifetime, and they'll get caught and they'll get 30 days in jail. Or they'll go away for a year, or they'll be fined. And yet, if you kill one person, you get the death penalty or you go to jail for life.

So if we're not going to get tough on the drug dealers who kills thousands of people and destroy so many people's lives, we are just doing the wrong thing. We have got to get tough. This isn't about nice anymore. This isn't about committees. This isn't about let's get everybody and have dinners, and let's have everybody go to a Blue Ribbon committee and everybody gets a medal for, frankly, talking and doing nothing. This is about winning a very, very tough problem. And if we don't get very tough on these dealers, it's not going to happen, folks. It's not going to happen. And I want to win this battle.

I don't want to leave at the end of seven years and have this problem, okay? (Applause.) I don't want that. Right? Thank you. Not going to happen. Thank you all. A lot of voters in this room. I see that. Thank you. (Applause.) No, we're going to solve this problem. We're going to solve it with brains, we're going to solve it with resolve, and we're going to solve it with toughness. Because toughness is the thing that they most fear. That's what they most fear.

So to the brave agents and officers, thank you for protecting us all.

Last year, my commission on combatting the incredible crisis of opioids issued 56 recommendations. My administration agreed with all of the commission's goals, and we've worked aggressively to put them into action.

Today, I'm here to announce additional steps that we're taking as part of our nationwide initiative to address the opioid crisis, and, by the way, the drug crisis—the general drug crisis.

First, we're taking action to reduce drug demand by preventing Americans from becoming addicted in the first place. So important. That includes increasing federal funding for the development of non-addictive painkillers. And we have to come up with a solution where we come up with a painkiller that's not so addictive. And we can do it. We're not that far off. We can do it. These things are incredibly addictive. So we're going to find that answer also.

Here with us today are Jim and Jean Mozer. They lost their beautiful son, Adam, to a fentanyl overdose. His addiction began with prescription pills he found in their kitchen cabinet. They have since begun the Zero Left initiative to help families get rid of excess painkillers. Jim and Jean, we're sorry for your loss—a great boy; he's a great boy—and we applaud your strength and your leadership. And where are you? Where are you? Come on up. Come on up here. Come on up here. (Applause.) Tell us about your boy.

MS. MOZER: Adam was our oldest son. He was a great kid. He was a smart kid. Grew up out in rural East Kingston, New Hampshire. He had a degree in actuarial science, which, as many of you know, that's the science of forecasting risk.

He was the kind of kid that made you feel really good about yourself. You give him five minutes; you really liked him. And, you know, he just made a bad choice one night. As smart as he was, he found his way into our kitchen cabinet. And, sadly, the rest is history. He got hooked on it, and had to go to the street eventually. And he found fentanyl.

And he's been gone for two-and-a-half years, and we miss him every day. Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you, darling. You take care of yourself. Okay?

MS. MOZER: Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. Thank you very much. (Applause.) Thank you. Appreciate it. And so many cases like that.

We're also taking action to prevent addiction by addressing the problem of overprescribing. (Applause.) And our Department of Justice is looking very seriously into bringing major litigation against some of these drug companies. We'll bring it at a federal level. (Applause.) Some states are already bringing it, but we're thinking about bringing it at a very high federal level. And we'll do a job.

We're going to cut nationwide opioid prescriptions by one-third over the next three years. We're also going to make sure that virtually all prescriptions reimbursed by the federal government follow best practices for prescribing. We'll ensure that opioid addiction is not subsidized by the American taxpayer. (Applause.)

The best way—so important—and the best way to beat the drug crisis is to keep people from getting hooked on drugs to begin with. As part of that effort—(applause)—so important. And this has been something that I've been very strongly in favor of: spending a lot of money on great commercials showing how bad it is, so that kids seeing those commercials during the right shows on television or wherever—the Internet—when they see these commercials they—“I don't want any part of it.” That's the least expensive thing we can do, where you scare them from ending up like the people in the commercials. And we'll make them very, very bad commercials. We'll make them pretty unsavory situations. And you've seen it before, and it's had an impact on smoking and cigarettes. You see what happens to the body; you see what happens to the mind.

So we're announcing a new website, CrisisNextDoor.gov, where Americans can share their stories about the danger of the opioid addiction and addictions.
But we're thinking about doing, really, a largescale rollout of commercials that show how bad it is for the kids. And when they see those commercials, hopefully, they're not going to be going to drugs of any kind—drugs of any kind. And we'll save a lot of lives, and we'll make their life a lot easier.

This epidemic can affect anyone, and that's why we want to educate everyone.
The second part of our initiative is to reduce the supply of illicit drugs. Ninety percent of the heroin in America comes from our southern border, where, eventually, the Democrats will agree with us and we'll build the wall to keep the damn drugs out. (Applause.)

AUDIENCE: Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall!

THE PRESIDENT: It's pretty amazing. They don't want to go with DACA, because they don't care about DACA. But they're trying to tie the wall to DACA, and DACA to the wall. And they want to keep DACA for the campaign instead of getting it approved, which we could do very easily. The Republicans are totally in favor of doing something substantial for DACA. But the Democrats like it as a campaign issue, so they don't get it approved. And they want to tie it to the wall, which is okay with me. But both should get approved. They don't want it to be approved. Remember what I said: They don't want it to be approved. They want to make it part of the campaign. Well, we'll make it part of the campaign, also. And we'll win, because we're going to win on those issues. (Applause.)

My administration is also confronting things called “sanctuary cities” that shield dangerous criminals. And every day, sanctuary cities release illegal immigrants and drug dealers, traffickers, and gang members back into our communities. They're protected by these cities. And you say, “What are they doing?” They're safe havens for just some terrible people. Some terrible people. And they're making it very dangerous for our law enforcement officers. You see it all the time.

As the people of New Hampshire have learned firsthand, ending sanctuary cities is crucial to stopping the drug addiction crisis. And your governor, who is great—the numbers are going down in New Hampshire. I don't know if you've seen it, but the numbers are going down. Chris, we were just—stand up, Chris. (Applause.) It's really one of the few bright spots where the numbers actually are going down, and that's a tremendous achievement. Thank you, Chris. (Applause.)

According to a recent Dartmouth study, the sanctuary city of Lawrence, Massachusetts is one of the primary sources of fentanyl in six New Hampshire counties. ICE recently arrested 15 MS-13 gang members—these are not good people, folks. Okay? These are bad, bad people. They don't use guns. They'd rather use knives because it's more painful and it takes longer. These are bad people—in Boston, Massachusetts, which is a place where you have sanctuary cities.

I'm repeating my call on Congress to block funds for sanctuary cities and to close the deadly loopholes that allow criminals back into our country and into our country in the first place. (Applause.)

You know, some things are very understandable. We have lots of issues where we're on both sides of an issue, and you can understand the other side even though you don't agree. Sanctuary cities are hard to understand for people because they don't get it. They don't get it. You see what's going on in California, how terrible it is, how dangerous it is. And they're all trying to protect sanctuary cities.

And whether it's Kate Steinle or so many others, they'd be around today if these people weren't allowed back into our country through, in this case, the southern border, at least five times. And look at the damage, and then look at this verdict. Look at the verdict. Can you believe the verdict?

So we have to get a lot smarter. We have to get a lot tougher. And speaking of tough, because here with us today is ICE Agent Derek Dunn. Derek worked with state police to uncover a major drug smuggling operation in Lawrence, Massachusetts. (Applause.) Where's Derek? Derek. Where's Derek? Come here, Derek. I love tough guys. We need tough guys. Come here, Derek. (Applause.)
AGENT DUNN: Just want to say thanks for everyone being here. And it's been a battle. It's been an absolute battle for our counterparts here at DEA and FBI and everybody—all the law enforcement, state police, and the local police. It's been an absolute battle. We all work together, and we're going to get this solved. (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. He didn't know he was going to do that. (Laughter.) And you didn't know you were going to do that. But that's in honor of your boy, right? You made a big impact.

I also want to mention ICE Agent Ron Morin and Manchester Police Detective Patrick Maguire. They helped lead the team that arrested a terrible human trafficker who used opioids to harm, in a very violent way, his victims. Thank you both for bringing the trafficker to a very strong and swift justice.
Where are you guys? Thank you. (Applause.) Stand up, fellas. Thank you. Thank you.

We're also shutting down illegal online marketplaces and preventing drugs that come from China and other countries from bypassing our borders. And we're getting very tough on it. It's not that we have a choice. We don't have a choice. We can be nice, and we can be soft and weak, and you're not going to have a country left. So we have to strengthen up, and strengthen up our laws so that we can do what we have to do. We have to stop this from happening.

Drug traffickers kill so many thousands of our citizens every year. And that's why my Department of Justice will be seeking so many much tougher penalties than we've ever had, and we will be focusing on the penalty that I talked about previously for the big pushers, the ones that are really killing so many people. And that penalty is going to be the death penalty. (Applause.)

If you look at—if you look at other countries—I've gotten to know the leaders of many countries. And I won't mention names, but you know the countries I'm talking about. I go around, “How is your drug problem?” “We don't have much of a drug problem.” “What do you mean you don't have a drug problem?” “Well, we don't have.” I say, how come? “We have zero tolerance for drug dealers.” I said, “What does that mean?” “That means we have the death penalty for drug dealers. We don't have a drug problem.”

Take a look at some of these countries where they don't play games. They don't have a drug problem. We have court cases that last 10 years, and then they get out at the end. We got to be tough. We have to be smart. We have to change the laws, and we're working on that right now. The Department of Justice is working very, very hard on that.

But the ultimate penalty has to be the death penalty. Now, maybe our country is not ready for that. It's possible—it's possible that our country is not ready for that. And I can understand it, maybe. Although, personally, I can't understand that. But there are people that are good people, that are strong, smart people, and they would differ with most of us. But I think unless you do that, unless you have really, really powerful penalties, led by the death penalty for the really bad pushers and abusers, we are going to get nowhere. And I'm telling you, we are going to get somewhere.

Companies must also be held accountable. The Department of Justice recently created a task force to coordinate investigations and lawsuits against manufacturers and other bad actors that harm our citizens.

And I can tell you that Jeff Sessions, who's here with us now, feels so strongly about this. And they're working very hard and very effectively on that, and so we appreciate that very much. Thank you. Thank you, Jeff. (Applause.) Thank you.

I can think of nothing more important. The third part of our initiative is to get lifesaving help to those who need it. We're going to make sure our first responders have access to lifesaving overdose-reversing drugs—which, by the way, are amazing.

Here with us today is Mike Kelly, the president of Adapt Pharma. Adapt Pharma makes an overdose-reversing drug for opioids, which I've watched and seen work. It's called Narcan. It's actually incredible. Today, we applaud Adapt Pharma's decision to provide free—free—Narcan to all high schools, colleges, and universities in America.

I'd like you to come up, Mike. Come up. (Applause.) Where's Mike? Come up, Mike. That's really an amazing and generous offer. Thank you.

Tell us a little bit about that, Mike. Please.

MR. KELLY: So, Adapt is a small company that has a big job, which is to reverse overdoses. And we've provided, free of charge, four boxes to all colleges and universities in the United States; two boxes free for every high school in the United States; as well as educational awareness for the nursing departments, as well as the faculty to train and teach everybody about the dangers of opioids and the risks, and also the benefits of having Narcan nasal spray near where opioids are.

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you very much.

MR. KELLY: Thank you. Appreciate it. (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you, Mike. It's amazing, generous. And I've watched the police and the fire—they come around and they've become so good at it. But I've seen people that are just about dead wake up.

Now, the problem is, they then go back, in many cases, to the drugs, and they do it again and again and again. But we have to work on that. We have to work on that very, very strongly.

I also want to recommend and commend a Richmond-based company, Kaleo, for donating more than 300,000 doses of their overdose-reversing drug to first responders, which has already saved more than 5,000 lives in a very short period of time.

My administration has made clear that medical providers can share crucial information with family members about an overdose so that their loved ones can help them get into treatment. We need treatment.

We're making medically assisted treatment more available and affordable, and we continue to increase competition and drive down drug prices. And we're driving them down. We're going to have a major news conference, probably at the White House, in about a month, because all of you people—and I'm talking about prescription drugs, not necessarily the drugs that we're talking about here. But we pay, as a country, so much more for drugs because of the drug lobbies and other reasons, and the complexity of distribution, which is basically another term for saying, “How do we get more money?”

And if you compare our drug prices to other countries in the world, in some cases it's many times higher for the exact same pill, or whatever it is, in the exact same package, made in the exact same plant. And we're going to change that.

And I would like to ask Secretary Azar just to come up and mention opioid, but also talk about how we're getting your drug prices down. And we've already saved billions of dollars for our country, and it's reflected in much lower drug prices. Watch what's going to happen over a short period of time. This man is one of the great professionals, ran an incredibly successful drug company. Who knows better than the guy running the drug company, Eli Lilly? That's your company, right? Or was.

SECRETARY AZAR: It was.

THE PRESIDENT: Now you're on the other side, though. So nobody knows better. The most respected man in that industry—and we got him to work, because he loves our country.

Would you tell them a little bit about what you have planned for drug prices and also opioids, in terms of stoppage? Please. Secretary. (Applause.)

SECRETARY AZAR: Well, thank you, Mr. President. And, you know, you've done a lot already to tackle this issue of drug pricing. So, last year, the FDA approved more generic drugs than it ever has in its history. And that brings prices down for patients, for the system, for everybody. (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT: Great.

SECRETARY AZAR: You also changed the rules so our senior citizens pay less out of pocket for their drugs. That's $3.2 billion that they're paying less out of pocket for their drugs when they go to the pharmacy. (Applause.)

And then, we're going to be rolling out, as you mentioned, in about a month, a whole slate of other proposals around how we decrease the price of drugs and how we bring discounts that the middlemen right now are getting; how those will go to our patients, to individuals.

Now we're attacking this with the same level of action, determination, and resolve that you're bring to the opioid crisis. And that's where we're focused on prevention and getting that one-third fewer illegal opioid prescriptions to our people. The second is the stopping the illicit flow of these opioids into our country. And the third is compassionate treatment for people—evidence-based, science-based, compassionate treatment—that can help people recover and stay away from relapse.

So, thank you, Mr. President, for your leadership. (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you, Alex. You'll be seeing drug prices falling very substantially in the not-too-distant future, and it's going to be beautiful.
And I want to thank, also, Scott Gottlieb. Scott is working on different things, but one of them is called “Right to Try.” Do you know what “Right to Try” is? These are for people that are terminally ill. And there are very, very good-looking combinations of things, or pills, medicines, potential cures. And they're terminal, and they're not going to be living much longer. And we don't have the right to give them these experimental drugs or these early-stage drugs that really show promise, for whatever reason. But they say because they don't want to harm somebody, if you can believe it. They don't want to harm. So the people will oftentimes go to foreign lands, foreign countries. They'll do anything. They want hope. They want hope. “Right to Try.”

So we're working with Congressman Greg Walden and numerous other senators and congressmen. And I think we're going to have good luck. The Democrats have been pushing back on it, but I think many of them are also coming along. It's called “Right to Try.” A patient is terminal. There's good progress made with a certain drug. We're going to make it possible for that patient to get that drug. And maybe it's going to work. It's hope. It's incredible; they've been talking about this for years and years and years. We're going to get it approved. So important. All right? (Applause.)

To further expand treatment, I'm also calling on Congress to change the restrictive 1970s-era law that prevents Medicaid from paying for care at certain treatment facilities with more than 16 beds. It's such an important factor.

In the meantime, my administration is granting waivers to states so they can help people who need treatment now, Governor.

We're also going to help inmates leaving prison get treatment so they can have a second chance to become productive, law-abiding citizens. And what we've really done for the inmates—you know, it's very hard for them to get out of jail and get a job.

What we've really done for them—better than anything we can sign, any legislation that we can pass demanding that you hire—we're getting a great economy. It hasn't been this good in many, many years. Some people say it's never been this good.

And what's happened is, as you see, unemployment is way down, and people are starting to hire inmates. And the results are incredible. Some of these employers are calling up, saying, “Wow, what great people.” We're giving them a second chance. It's very, very important. So the tremendous economy is helping us very much with that program.

We want every American—(applause)—thank you. We want every American to be able to be able to reach their full God-given potential. And we will succeed together as one people, one nation, and one great American family. Because Americans never give in, and we never, ever give up. This group never gives up, right? Never give up. Your boy. (Applause.)

The brave families here today remind us that the strength of America is found in the heart of our people. We see America's heart in the parents who won't accept addiction as the fate of their children. And if something horrible has befallen that family, they go around and they want to make sure it never happens to another family. And that's why we thank you so much, and we thank your boy. (Applause.) He did not die in vain.

We see it in sons and daughters who cheer on moms and dads as they recover. We see it in the doctors and nurses who provide constant and loving care. We see it in the heroic law enforcement officers who race into unimaginable danger. We see it in EMTs and firefighters who act so quickly to save so many lives. And we see this American heart in the men and women who fight every day to help rescue their fellow citizens from the grips of addiction.

These are the courageous souls who remind us that, for America, there is nothing beyond our reach. Nothing at all. (Applause.) Nothing.

We will defeat this crisis, we will protect our beautiful children, and we will ensure that tomorrow is better, brighter, stronger, and greater than ever before. Because as long as we have trust in our citizens, pride in our country, and faith in our God, we will not fail. (Applause.) Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. (Applause.) Thank you very much. Thank you very much.

Together, we will end the scourge of drug addiction in America once and for all. We will win. We will beat it. We'll be tough. We'll be smart. We'll be kind. We'll be loving. We'll do whatever we have to do. But we're going to win.

Thank you, God bless you, and God bless America. (Applause.) Thank you very much. Thank you.

Well, thank you very much.  Please.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  And I want to thank you all for being here as we mark the 20th anniversary of Trafficking Victims Protection Act.  Very important.

Twenty years ago, this nation took a historic step to protect the victims of this form of modern-day slavery here in the United States and all around the world.  My administration is 100 percent committed to eradicating human trafficking from the Earth.

I am pleased to be joined this afternoon by Vice President Mike Pence and the members of my Cabinet: Attorney General William Barr; Secretary Gene Scalia — hello, Gene; Secretary Alex Azar, who is very busy — and I'm going to see you in a little while, right?  Unfortunately, for this — in this case. Acting Secretary Chad Wolf, great job with those numbers.  Great job, Chad.  Deputy Secretary Stephen Biegun.  Hi, Stephen.

And thanks also to Representatives Chris Smith, Ann Wagner, Michael McCaul, and Chip Roy for being with us.  Thank you very much.  (Applause.)

And we have a lot of great senators that wanted to be here so desperately, but I said, “Just stay where you are and do you job, please.”  (Laughter.)

We also have with us Ambassadors Callista Gingrich — hi, Callista.  (Applause.)  Sam Brownback and John Richmond.  Thank you all very much.  Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

And Director of the FBI, Christopher Wray.  Christopher.  Thank you, Chris.  (Applause.)  And we have Georgia Attorney General Chris Carr — very active.  Thank you very much, Chris.  Thank you very much.  (Applause.)  And Florida Attorney General Ashley Moody.  Thank you.  Thank you, Ashley.  Thank you, Ashley.  (Applause.)

Florida Lieutenant Governor Jeanette Nunez.  (Applause.)  And First Lady of Texas, Cecilia Abbott.  (Applause.)  I just saw your husband, by the way.  I just saw your great husband.  Great gentleman.

And North Carolina Lieutenant Governor Dan Forest.  Thank you very much.  Thank you, Dan.  Great.  (Applause.)

And I am especially grateful to Ivanka for her unwavering efforts.  She has taken this under her wing.  (Applause.)  Thank you very much.  Thank you, honey.

Ivanka has been a champion for administrative and legislative actions to combat human trafficking.  And a true heart — she has — this issue has been so important to her.  This, and making sure people are ready to work.  And she has now created over 15 million jobs for the people of our country — one of the reasons our unemployment numbers are the best ever.  Fifteen million.  (Applause.)

And I would say that this issue may be closest to her heart because of the level of evil that you would never believe is even possible in a modern age.  The level of evil is incredible.

So I just want to thank Ivanka for — for both of the things that you are really focused on.  Thank you very much, honey.  I appreciate it.  (Applause.)  Fifteen million jobs.  It was going to be 500,000.  “Daddy, I think we can do 500,000.”  Within about a week, she broke that, and now she is up 15 million jobs.  It's a fantastic thing.  (Applause.)  I'm not — I'm not surprised, Mike.  We're not surprised.

We are also honored to have with us several extraordinary survivors of human trafficking.  And I want to thank you all for being here.  And you'll come up when we sign, and it's going to be my great honor to say hello and shake your hand.  And your courage really inspires us all.  I want to just let you know that.

As the men and women in this room know, human trafficking is a problem everywhere — a worldwide problem.  Human trafficking is worse than ever before, and that's because of the Internet.  I've heard from Bill Barr, and I've heard from others, that the Internet has caused lots of good things to happen and lots of really bad things.  And this is probably the worst of the bad things.  And it's an incredible thing.

An estimated 25 million people around the world today are being held captive, manipulated, and abused by human traffickers.

In 2018 alone, the National Human Trafficking Hotline identified over 23,000 human trafficking victims in the United States.  Sixty-five percent of these victims were women.  More than one in five were children.  Human traffickers prey on their most vulnerable citizens and people.   They're vicious.  They're violent.

My administration is fighting these monsters, persecuting and prosecuting them, and locking them away for a very, very long time.  We've had a tremendous track record — the best track record in a long time.

We are dismantling the criminal organizations that make largescale human trafficking possible.  In my first month in office, I instructed federal agencies to go out and just do what you have to do.  All federal departments are doing what they do to identify and destroy these groups.  And we are destroying a lot of them.  Unfortunately, they come back very quickly in a different form.

In 2018, the Department of Justice shut down the leading site for online sex trafficking.  The DOJ prosecuted a number of violent crimes.  That now is a record number.  In the last three years, ICE has arrested over 5,000 human traffickers.  And I want to thank ICE.  They have been incredible.  These are great, great people.  (Applause.)  Great.  Great people.  They're tough, they're brave, and they love our country.

Overseas, we have also seen historic prog- — really, progress, incredible progress working with us and using our intelligence with them.

When I took office, ISIS controlled over 20,000 square miles of territory and perpetrated some of the most heinous forms of human trafficking anywhere in the world.  As you know, we've totally defeated the ISIS caliphate in Syria, in Iraq.  And it's 100 percent.

We have thousands and thousands of prisoners — ISIS prisoners.  And it's really been something that's been rather incredible.  And we did that rather quickly, because when we came in, as an administration, it was all over.  And we have 100 percent of the caliphate.  They're bloodthirsty.  They're horrible.

The founder and leader, al-Baghdadi, who was trying to rebuild ISIS, is now dead.  We got him and that was a big thing.  (Applause.)  That was a big thing, and not an easy thing.  He was hiding and they've been after him for 15 years, but we got him.

My administration is putting unprecedented pressure on traffickers at home and abroad, and we are freeing innocent victims at every single turn.

I was proud to be the first Commander-in-Chief to attend a meeting of the President's Interagency Task Force established by the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000.  In November, I was also the first President to sign an executive order to establish a Task Force on Missing and Murdered American Indians and Alaska Natives.  (Applause.)  Just signed it.  And this has a very special focus on women and girls.  That's an incredible thing that's been happening, but we just signed it.

I've signed nine pieces of bipartisan legislation aimed specifically at combatting human trafficking domestically and around the globe.

And in 2018, I signed legislation strengthening the Department of Homeland Security's Blue Campaign, which unified the Department's fight against this crisis and — increasing public awareness every single day.  We have signed more legislation on human trafficking, by far, than any other administration has even thought about.  We enacted bills.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  And we'll do what's necessary.  We will do exactly what's necessary.  There's nothing more horrible than this.

We enacted bills to fight sex trafficking, increase support for survivors, and raise the standards by which we judge whether other countries are meeting their duty to fight human trafficking.  And you have countries that talk and they talk.  They're like politicians in Washington.  (Laughter.)  They keep talking; they do nothing about it.  They do nothing about it.

And we spend a lot of money on these other countries.  And we're not sending it, and we let them know,ver if they're not going to be doing their job.  They don't — in some cases, probably — want to do their job, and that's a pretty bad thing.

We have authorized $430 million to fight sex and labor trafficking.  And with the help of the State Department, I have held foreign governments accountable for failing to address human trafficking by imposing restrictions on foreign assistance — and very powerful restrictions.  (Applause.)

I've also prioritized increasing funding for anti-trafficking efforts in my 2021 budget, allocating $70 million towards enhanced prosecutions and — at the Department of Justice.  We are spending $123 million towards supporting state and local efforts. (Applause.)

And this is all new funding, and these funds will directly benefit those on the frontlines who are tasked with bringing down the perpetrators of this terrible crime.  So the kind of money we're talking about now is far greater than what you've had in the past.

And let them give the people that worked so hard in this administration credit because they've wanted to do it more than the people in any other preceding administration.  And you can read what you want, you can say what you want, but nobody has done more than what we've been doing on human trafficking.  (Applause.)

So today, on the last day of this year's National Slavery and Human Trafficking Prevention Month, I will take another very decisive action.  In a few moments, I will sign an executive order targeting human trafficking and child exploitation all across our country.  This order — (applause).

And this is a very big one: This order will build on an incredible work that — and, really, the unbelievable work that so many of the people in this room have been doing, and all of the work that has been done and increasingly is being done.

You wouldn't believe the level — the level of enthusiasm that people working on this issue have.  I wor- — I have many issues: economic — we have all different issues.  I have never seen such enthusiasm for a single issue as I have for human trafficking.  (Applause.)

And I have to say, that starts with Bill Barr and Chris Wray, the FBI.  It starts with all of the people in law enforcement.  So important.  And it's something that people really do appreciate.

So they collect and they coordinate.  They share vital law enforcement and intelligence information with other places all over the world, and — very, very important.  And we have made a tremendous impact.  The problem is it's so massive.  It's so many people.  It's so many countries.  But we've had a tremendous impact.

It will be posted online along with a comprehensive list of government resources, all of the things that we do, and where to go to find out about what's happening.

This order expands prevention education programs, promotes housing opportunities for survivors, and prioritizes the removal of child sexual abuse material from the Internet. (Applause.)

And furthermore, it takes the vital step of designating a full-time position here at the White House dedicated solely to combating human trafficking, so people know how important it is.  (Applause.)

The United States government continues to work with the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, in consultation with industry, on a set, voluntary principle.  We have a — a set of voluntary principles to tackle online child sexual exploitation and abuse.  And the level of detail, the kind of things that they're putting in — nobody has ever seen anything like this before.

The people that are working on it do it with incredible heart and love, and they want something to happen.  They don't want to be wasting time like people have been wasting for many years.  Even people in this position, they've been wasting time and not a lot of money, I have to tell you.  They haven't spent — as you know, they haven't been spending a lot of money.  We're now spending a lot of money.

We look forward to launching these principles in the coming months.  We will not rest until we've stopped every last human trafficker and liberated every last survivor.  (Applause.)

So I'm now pleased to introduce an incredible survivor, and the newest member of the U.S. Advisory Council on Human trafficking, Bella Hounakey.  Hi, Bella.  (Applause.)

MS. HOUNAKEY:  Good afternoon, my name is Bella Hounakey.  Thank you, President Trump, Ms. Ivanka Trump, and the White House for organizing this important event.  It is truly a great honor to be here to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act.

At age 13, I was brought into this country.  I survived trafficking, along with 19 other girls.  Afterwards, I was placed in foster care, but this negative experience in my past should not wholly define who I am today.  (Applause.)  Today, I am a college graduate.  Today, I am an American citizen.  (Applause.)  And today, I stand before you as the newest member of the U.S. Advisory Council on Human Trafficking. (Applause.)

The Council is composed of survivor leaders who bring their experience and expertise to advise and provide recommendations to the President's Task Force to Monitor and Combat Trafficking Persons.

We represent a diverse range of backgrounds and experiences and we're sincerely grateful to this administration for appointing our current (inaudible) members to support federal government efforts to prevent and improve trafficking programs and policies.

We view the existence of this council as a victory for trafficking survivors in the federal government.  This council is a model for survivor empowerment and survivor-centered approaches that other countries, states, and localities may learn from and adapt.

This council shows in real and tangible ways how survivors can positively impact and inform anti-trafficking efforts at the highest levels of government.

To truly be survivor-centered and informed means to not only prioritize survivors' needs or wishes and service delivery, it must also include meaningful collaboration with survivors to inform the design and implementation of the very policies and programs that affect them.  No survivors should ever be viewed by their trafficking or lived experiences alone.

We acknowledge the great strides the federal government has made in the last 20 years to combat trafficking, as well as that of other stakeholders.  We look forward to continuing to advise and collaborate with the task force to realize the goals of the TVPA, and we encourage all of you to view our 2020 annual report, which will be released this April.

Thank you very much for the opportunity to be here today.  And to end, I would like to share a statement and a quote from our council's chair, the Honorable Judge Lung, Robert:

This is to the victims and survivors out there: It's never been your fault, no matter what.  So let go of that toxic shame; it doesn't belong to you.  You are never too old, too lost, or too broken to begin healing today. 

Hope is key, and even if it starts out as small as a mustard seed, nurture hope — it'll save you. 

And most importantly, you are not alone.  You're not alone.  You're not alone. 

Thank you and God bless America.  (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Incredible.  (Applause.)  Mr. President, Attorney General Barr, members of the council, Ivanka, Cabinet Secretaries, members of our diplomatic corps, including Ambassador Gingrich, distinguished members of Congress who've worked on this issue for so many years with such heart and compassion, members of the law enforcement community and faith leaders, and most especially, Bella and the courageous survivors who joined us here today: It is an honor to be with you on this historic day.  (Applause.)

As the President reflected, we're here to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act.

As the President has made clear, from his heart, we have a President who knows human trafficking is not only an unconscionable evil, but an epidemic in the world today.  And the United States of America will confront it as never before.  (Applause.)

Mr. President, as you said in your proclamation marking this past month, that human trafficking “is an affront to humanity.”  And you've taken decisive action to bring human traffickers to justice, their victims to safety, and to help survivors walk the difficult road to recovery.

Like no President before you, you've made it a priority to target transnational criminal organizations that have victimized thousands of innocent people on both sides of our borders.

I know the President and I are grateful for the efforts of all of those gathered here today for your compassion, for shining light in the darkness, and bringing the justice and determination of the American people to this cause.

But permit me to add one more voice of appreciation to a member of this administration who has probably articulated the President's message on this issue with more compassion and more determination than anyone else in the history of this moment.  Would you join me in thanking Ivanka Trump one more time for her extraordinary leadership on human trafficking?  (Applause.)

Mr. President, the order you're about to sign will impact the federal response across our government and empower the agencies so well represented here to have even more tools to combat the scourge of human trafficking.  It will improve the way law enforcement and federal agencies gather information.  It will also make it easier for the American people to partner with this administration and with law enforcement in combatting human trafficking.

It will empower faith-based organizations to provide victims and survivors with more compassionate care.

And with more and more young people around America engaged in this issue, Mr. President, by your order today, you will give younger Americans, especially, the ability on the Internet to identify the signs of trafficking, what dangers to avoid, and how to break free if they've been victimized.  (Applause.)

Our founding documents attest that we believe that every person is endowed by our Creator with certain unalienable rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.  And today, with a compassionate determination of all of those gathered here, Mr. President, you again show the American people's commitment to the justice and dignity and worth of every person, and we thank you for your leadership and compassion.  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  So, Mike, thank you very much.  And I just want to congratulate everybody in this room.

What I'd like to do is maybe ask some of our folks that are so involved to come up and the survivors to come up.  We will sign and we will say hello to everybody.

And again, it's an honor to be with you today.  Thank you very much.  This is a big moment.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

Well, thank you very much and thank you, Jeanne.  It is my profound honor to be the first President in history to attend the March for Life.  (Applause.)  We're here for a very simple reason: to defend the right of every child, born and unborn, to fulfill their God-given potential.  (Applause.)

For 47 years, Americans of all backgrounds have traveled from across the country to stand for life.  And today, as President of the United States, I am truly proud to stand with you.  (Applause.)

I want to welcome tens of thousands — this is a tremendous turnout — tens of thousands of high school and college students who took long bus rides — (applause) — to be here in our nation's capital.  And to make you feel even better, there are tens of thousands of people outside that we passed on the way in.  If anyone would like to give up their spot, we can work that out.  (Laughter.)  You have a tremendous group of people outside.  Thousands and thousands wanted to get in.  This is some great success.  (Applause.)  Young people are the heart of the March for Life, and it's your generation that is making America the pro-family, pro-life nation.  (Applause.)

The life movement is led by strong women, amazing faith leaders, and brave students who carry on the legacy of pioneers before us who fought to raise the conscience of our nation and uphold the rights of our citizens.  You embrace mothers with care and compassion.  You are powered by prayer, and motivated by pure, unselfish love.

You're grateful — and we are so grateful — these are incredible people — to be joined by Secretary Alex Azar and Kellyanne Conway.  (Applause.)  Thank you.

And thanks also to Senators Mike Lee and James Lankford, who are here.  James, Mike — thank you, fellas.  And Representatives Steve Scalise — (applause); Chris Smith — (applause); Ralph Abraham — (applause); Warren Davidson — (applause); Bob Latta — (applause); John Joyce — (applause); Lloyd Smucker — (applause);  Brian Fitzpatrick — (applause); and Brad Wenstrup.  (Applause.)  Thank you, all.  (Applause.)

And I have to say — and I look at it — I see it exactly — we have many, many more politicians in the audience.  But, if you don't mind, I won't introduce them all.  (Laughter.)

All of us here today understand an eternal truth: Every child is a precious and sacred gift from God.  (Applause.)  Together, we must protect, cherish, and defend the dignity and sanctity of every human life.  (Applause.)

When we see the image of a baby in the womb, we glimpse the majesty of God's creation.  (Applause.)  When we hold a newborn in our arms, we know the endless love that each child brings to a family.  When we watch a child grow, we see the splendor that radiates from each human soul.  One life changes the world.  From my family — and I can tell you, I send love and I send great, great love.

And from the first day in office, I've taken a historic action to support America's families and to protect the unborn.  (Applause.)  And during my first week in office, I reinstated and expanded the Mexico City Policy, and we issued a landmark pro-life rule to govern the use of Title X taxpayer funding.  (Applause.)

I notified Congress that I would veto any legislation that weakens pro-life policies or that encourages the destruction of human life.  (Applause.)

At the United Nations, I made clear that global bureaucrats have no business attacking the sovereignty of nations that protect innocent life.  (Applause.)

Unborn children have never had a stronger defender in the White House.  (Applause.)  And as the Bible tells us, each person is “wonderfully made.”  (Applause.)

We have taken decisive action to protect the religious liberty –- so important.  Religious liberty has been under attack all over the world, and, frankly, very strongly attacked in our nation.  You see it better than anyone.  But we are stopping it, and we're taking care of doctors, nurses, teachers, and groups like the Little Sisters of the Poor.  (Applause.)  We are preserving faith-based adoption.  (Applause.)

And to uphold our founding documents, we have confirmed 187 federal judges — (applause) — who apply the Constitution as written, including two phenomenal Supreme Court Justices: Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh.  (Applause.)

We are protecting pro-life students' right to free speech on college campuses.  (Applause.)  And if universities want federal taxpayer dollars, then they must uphold your First Amendment right to speak your mind.  And if they don't, they pay a very big financial penalty, which they will not be willing to pay.  (Applause.)

Sadly, the far-left is actively working to erase our God-given rights, shut down faith-based charities, ban religious believers from the public square, and silence Americans who believe in the sanctity of life.  They are coming after me because I am fighting for you and we are fighting for those who have no voice.  And we will win because we know how to win.  (Applause.)  We all know how to win.  We all know how to win.  You've been winning for a long time.  You've been winning for a long time.  (Applause.)

AUDIENCE: Four more years!  Four more years!  Four more years!

THE PRESIDENT:  Together, we are the voice for the voiceless.  When it comes to abortion, Democrats is a — and you know this, you've seen what's happened — Democrats have embraced the most radical and extreme positions taken and seen in this country for years, and decades — and you can even say “for centuries.”

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  Nearly every top Democrat in Congress now supports taxpayer-funded abortion, all the way up until the moment of birth.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  Last year, lawmakers in New York cheered with delight upon the passage of legislation that would allow a baby to be ripped from the mother's womb right up until delivery.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  Then, we had the case of the Democrat governor in the state of Virginia — the Commonwealth of Virginia.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  And we love the Commonwealth of Virginia, but what is going on in Virginia?  What is going on?  The Governor stated that he would execute a baby after birth.  You remember that.

Senate Democrats even blocked legislation that would give medical care to babies who survive attempted abortions.  That's why I've called on Congress — two of our great senators here, so many of our congressmen here — and called upon them to defend the dignity of life and to pass legislation prohibiting  late-term abortion of children who can feel pain in their mother's womb.  (Applause.)

This year, the March for Life is celebrating the 100th anniversary of the 19th Amendment, which forever enshrined women's rights to vote in the United States — (applause) — and given by the United States Constitution.  Such a big event.  (Applause.)

Today, millions of extraordinary women across America are using the power of their votes to fight for the right, and all of their rights, as given in the Declaration of Independence –- it's the right to life. To all the women here today: Your devotion and your leadership uplifts our entire nation, and we thank you for that.

The tens of thousands of Americans gathered today not only stand for life — it's really that they stand for it so proudly together, and I want to thank everybody for that.

You stand for life each and every day.  You provide housing, education, jobs, and medical care to the women that you serve.  You find loving families for children in need of a forever home.  You host baby showers for expecting moms.  You make –- you just make it your life's mission to help spread God's grace.

And to all of the moms here today: We celebrate you, and we declare that mothers are heroes.  (Applause.)  That's true.  Your strength, devotion, and drive is what powers our nation. And, because of you, our country has been blessed with amazing souls who have changed the course of human history.

We cannot know what our citizens yet unborn will achieve, the dreams they will imagine, the masterpieces they will create, the discoveries they will make.  But we know this: Every life brings love into this world.  Every child brings joy to a family.  Every person is worth protecting.  (Applause.)  And above all, we know that every human soul is divine, and every human life –- born and unborn –- is made in the holy image of Almighty God. (Applause.)

Together, we will defend this truth all across our magnificent land.  We will set free the dreams of our people. And with determined hope, we look forward to all of the blessings that will come from the beauty, talent, purpose, nobility, and grace of every American child.

I want to thank you.  This is a very special moment.  It's so great to represent you.  I love you all and –- (applause) — and I say with true passion:  Thank you. God bless you.  And God bless America.  Thank you all.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

Hello, everybody.  Happy New Year.  Happy New Year.  We're going to have a great year, I predict.  I think it's going to be a fantastic year.  We had the best economic year, I think, in our country's history.  And I think we're really set for additional growth and jobs and everything else.  It'll be great.

Kevin?

Q    What do you want the American people to know, Mr. President, about how you're handling the situation in Iraq, as it relates to Iran?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I think it's been handled very well.  The Marines came in.  We had some great warriors come in and do a fantastic job.  And they were there instantaneously, as soon as we heard.  I used the word “immediately”; they came immediately.  And it's in great shape, as you know.  This will not be a Benghazi.  Benghazi should never have happened.  This will never, ever be a Benghazi.

But we have some of our greatest warriors there.  They got in there very quickly.  As soon as we saw there was a potential for problem, they got in, and there was no problem whatsoever.

I also want to thank the Iraqi government.  They really stepped up.  I spoke to the Prime Minister today.  I thanked him.  But they stepped up very nicely.

Q    Mr. President, do you foresee going to war with Iran?

THE PRESIDENT:  I don't think that would be a good idea for Iran.  It wouldn't last very long.  Do I want to?  No.  I want to have peace.  I like peace.  And Iran should want peace more than anybody.  So I don't see that happening.  No, I don't think Iran would want that to happen.  It would go very quickly.

Q    Mr. President, can you — what is your message tonight for — what is your message tonight for North Korea?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, we'll see.  I have a very good relationship with Kim Jong Un.  I know he's sending out certain messages about Christmas presents, and I hope his Christmas present is a beautiful vase.  That's what I'd like — a vase —

Q    Do you think it will be, sir?

THE PRESIDENT:  — as opposed to something else.  I don't know.  I — look, he likes me; I like him.  We get along.  He's representing his country.  I'm representing my country.  We have to do what we have to do.

But he did sign a contract.  He did sign an agreement, talking about denuclearization.  And that was signed.  Number-one sentence: denuclearization.  That was done in Singapore.  And I think he's a man of his word.  So we're going to find out, but I think he's a man of his word.

Q    I know it's a night of celebration, Mr. President, but are you spoiling for a political fight in January, with the impeachment?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, the impeachment thing is a hoax.  It's a big, fat hoax.  We had, I guess, 196 to nothing, with the Republicans.  We had three Democrats come over.  One actually joined our party, as you know — which is, I think, a record.  I don't think that's been done before, in terms of somebody coming in like that on a vote like that.  But he joined our party — from New Jersey.  He's going to be fantastic.

And, no, I think — I look forward to it.  I mean, we'll see.  We have absolutely — we did nothing wrong.  All you have to do is read the transcripts.  If you read the transcripts — or you could also do something else.  You could go see or speak to the President of Ukraine.  And the President of Ukraine said, loudly and boldly — and I appreciate his statement — he said it many times: There was no pressure.  The foreign minister of Ukraine said there was absolutely no pressure, and that's the whole case right there.  There was no pressure whatsoever.

I do say two things: We have to check corruption, and we also have to find out why is it that the United States is always giving foreign countries money.  And Germany and France and all of Europe — they're not doing much.  In fact, they're not doing anything, relative to this.  Why is it always the United States?  I've been asking you those questions and making those statements for a long time to everybody standing here.  Nobody ever mentions that.

That was part of it.  In fact, that's in the transcript also.  I talk about — a very good woman, to be honest with you — Chancellor Merkel.  But I said, “Where is Chancellor Merkel?  Where is President Macron of France?  Why aren't they putting up money?  Why is it always the United States?”  Nobody ever covers that, but that's a big factor.  So I think that's going to go very quick.  I think it's going to go very easy.

We have tremendous — and, you know, I have to say this — we have tremendous Republican support.  What the Democrats did in the House was a disgrace.  What they did — how unfair it was.  We didn't get lawyers.  We didn't have witnesses.  We didn't do anything.  And still, we got 100 percent of the Republican votes.  And it was bipartisan, because we got three Democrats.

So I think the impeachment thing — I call it “impeachment light.”  It's a disgrace.  And Nancy Pelosi should be ashamed of herself.  She's a highly overrated person.  I know her well; she's highly overrated.

Q    (Inaudible) about vaping?

THE PRESIDENT:  Vaping is coming out.  We're just going to be announcing it very shortly.  Some people already know about what we're doing.  We have to protect our families.  At the same time, it's a big industry.  We want to protect the industry.

And, as you know, we'll be taking it off — the flavors — for a period of time — certain flavors.  We're going to protect our families.  We're going to protect our children.  And we're going to protect the industry.  Hopefully, if everything is safe, they're going to be going very quickly back onto the market.

So the flavors will come off.  They're going to be checked.  We want to make it — people have died from this.  They've died from vaping.  We think we understand why.  But we're doing a very exhaustive examination, and hopefully everything will be back on the market very, very shortly.

Look, vaping can be good from the standpoint — you look at the e-cigarettes — you stop smoking.  If you can stop smoking, that's a big advantage.

So we think we're going to get it back onto the market very, very quickly, but we have to protect the children.  We have to protect the families.  At the same time, we have a very big industry.  It's become a very big industry.  We're going to take care of the industry.

Q    Do you want there to be a trial in the Senate?  Or do you want there not to be a trial in the Senate?
THE PRESIDENT:  I don't really care.  It doesn't matter.  As far as I'm concerned, I'd be very happy with the trial because we did nothing wrong.  We didn't even have a witness, and we won 196 to nothing.  Okay?  We didn't have a witness.  That was all the Democrats' witness.

Look, Adam Schiff is a corrupt politician.  He's corrupt.  He got up — he made a speech, said something I never said.  And when I released the transcript — which is absolutely a perfect, totally appropriate conversation with a very good man, a very good President — I hear he's doing a great job.  But a big reason he got elected was corruption.  There's tremendous corruption.

But the other thing — and, again, I ask: Why aren't other countries — Germany, France, and others — why aren't they putting up money like we put up?  And I've asked that question for a long time not only about Ukraine, about a lot of other places.

I was able to get, recently, at NATO — and you have to speak to Secretary General Stoltenberg — $530 billion additionally, over a very short period of time; $130 billion immediately.  He has never seen anything like that.  That's NATO.
This is something different.  Those countries should be putting up money.  They should also be giving to Ukraine.

All right, one more question.  Go ahead.

Q    (Inaudible) China trade.

THE PRESIDENT:  On trade?  We're very excited about trade.  The China deal will be signed probably on January 15th.  We put out a notice today.  And I'll be going, at some point, to Beijing, to be with President Xi.  We have a great relationship.  And we'll be doing something reciprocal.

But I think, more importantly, we'll be starting negotiations very soon on phase two.  And I think phase two can be complete.  A lot of people said, “Well, are you going to have phase two, or phase two and phase three?”  I think we'll have phase two.  I think that should complete it.  But we'll be starting those negotiations very soon.

I want to thank everybody.  I want you to have a great year.  Look, you're honorable people.  You have to stay honorable.  If you're honorable, I'm going to win the election by a lot.  If you're not honorable, I'm just going to win the election by a little.  So I'd rather have you be honorable, okay?

Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you, Jeff.  Good luck.  Thank you, Kevin.

Q    How about Mrs. Trump's New Year's resolution?  Melania?

Q    What is your resolution?

MRS. TRUMP:  Happy New Year.

Q    Happy New Year.  How about your New Year's resolution?

Q    What is your resolution?

Q    What's your goal for the New Year?

MRS. TRUMP:  Peace on the world.

THE PRESIDENT:  Peace is right.  But I'm — I'm not sure you're supposed to say resolutions out loud, okay?  So we don't want to — I don't want to say what my resolution is because I think we jinx it, all right?

But I can tell you, we have a good re- — we really have a good resolution, and it's a resolution for our country.  We love our country.  Our country has never done better than it's doing right now.

We have the best unemployment numbers.  We have the best employment numbers.  Almost 160 million people are working.  African American, Asian American, Hispanic American — they have the best numbers in the history of our country.  We're very happy.  And we rebuilt our military.  We cut taxes down — the lowest in history, biggest tax cut ever.  We're doing great.  Our country is really the talk of the world.  Everybody is talking about it.

Thank you very much.  Please.  And it's always nice to begin by saying: The stock market is up again.  We just set another record, so we should say that.  Very substantially up.  (Applause.)  And I think that's 132 times that we've set a record from the time we got elected on that very great day.  But it's — it's good to know.  A lot of people are very happy.

We're doing well.  Our country is doing very well.  And the First Lady and I are delighted to welcome you all to the White House on this magnificent autumn day.  On behalf of the entire Trump family, I wish each and every one of you a very happy Thanksgiving.  It's going to be a great Thanksgiving.

We're glad to be joined today by Representatives David Rouzer and Jason Smith and a man who has done an — and, I have to say, they are warriors.  They have all been great warriors.  Mark Meadows, thank you very much.  The three of you, please stand up.  They are warriors — (applause) — and great people.  And Deb, thank you very much for being here.  Thank you.

Thanks also to the President of the National Turkey Federation, Joel Brandenberger; and its Chairman, Kevrin [Kerry] Doughty, who is here with his family and his wife, Jan.  Where is Ker- — Jan, thank you very much.  Please, stand up for what you do.  He's also the head of Butterball — the Chairman of Butterball.  (Applause.)  That's the biggest there is.  Great job.  And we appreciate your involvement.  Thank you very much.

As we gather this week with loved ones across our beautiful land, we give thanks to God for the many gifts that he has bestowed upon us.  Today, we also come together to honor the beautiful, feathered friend — the noble turkey.  Now, that's a beauty.

It's said that Abraham Lincoln was the first President to spare a Thanksgiving turkey, at the request of his son.  In 1947, President Harry Truman accepted the first annual National Thanksgiving Turkey.  In the decades that followed, Presidents, from Kennedy to Reagan, would show mercy —

(The turkey gobbles.)

See?  (Laughter.)  Wow.  That's a strong bird.

— to their birds, but it was George H.W. Bush who first issued an official pardon.

In keeping with that tradition, today I will issue a pardon to a pair of very handsome birds: Butter and his alternate, Bread.  (Laughter.)

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  That's true.  Look at you.

Their names were chosen by the students of Harrells Christian Academy in North Carolina.  Great state.

Bread and Butter were raised in Tar Heel State by farmer Wellie Jackson, who's here with us with his wife Tara and their lovely family.  And I want to thank you very much.  Great job.  Great job.  Thank you very much.  (Applause.)

Thankfully, Bread and Butter have been specially raised by the Jacksons to remain calm under any condition, which will be very important because they've already received subpoenas to appear in Adam Schiff's basement on Thursday.  (Laughter and applause.)  It's true.   Hundreds of people have.  It seems the Democrats are accusing me of being too soft on turkey.  (Laughter.)

But, Bread and Butter, I should note that. unlike previous witnesses, you and I have actually met.  (Laughter.)  It's very unusual.  (Applause.)  Very unusual.

In any event, I expect this pardon will be a very popular one with the media.  After all, turkeys are closely related to vultures.  I don't know if I like that line, but there is a little truth to it.

But today, after, the birds will retire to “Gobbler's Rest” at Virginia Tech — great college — where they will be cared for and enjoy a terrific life.

This Thanksgiving, we bow our heads in gratitude for the newfound prosperity and spirit that's taking place all across America.  The country has never been more successful.  Our military has been rebuilt.  We captured the number-one terrorist in the world and killed the number-one terrorist in the world — al-Baghdadi.  And I want to thank our military because there's nothing like our military.  (Applause.)

And I want to thank almighty God for the — shedding his grace on our nation.  Our nation is special and we especially send our love to members of the United States Armed Forces serving all around the world.  We are forever thankful for those who wear our nation's uniform and the families who support them.  The families are so important.  They can never be the same without those great families.  Because of their selfless service, millions of our follow Americans are celebrating another wonderful Thanksgiving in safety and in peace.

And it's just a very special country, a very special place — the Rose Garden at the White House.  If you're looking back here, that's the Oval Office.  Some of you haven't been here before.  But every time we walk onto the grounds of the White House, we realize how special it is.

So now we reach the moment Bread and Butter have been waiting for so patiently — their presidential pardons.  Melania and I wish all Americans a very happy and blessed Thanksgiving.  We love you all.

Butter, let's talk to you for a second because I'm going to do something that you're going to be very happy about.  Uh oh, that looks like a dangerous bird.  (Laughter.)  It just escaped.

Wow.  Butter, I wish you a lot of luck.  But I hereby grant you a full and complete pardon.  (Applause.)  Good.  Full and complete.  (Applause.)

Thank you all very much.  That was great.  A lot of fun.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.

So, thank you very much.  We're going to Austin, Texas.  Apple is opening up a fantastic facility.  They're spending a tremendous amount of money.  And I've been asking Tim Cook from the day I got elected — from the campaign, I've been asking Tim Cook to, if they would, we want to see Apple build here; that way, you have no tariffs.  There's no tariffs.  When companies come to our country and they build, there's no tariffs.

The economy is doing unbelievably well.  We continue to talk to China.  China wants to make a deal.  The question is: Do I want to make a deal?  Because I like what's happening right now.  We're taking in billions and billions of dollars.

I'm going to go very quickly — just a quick comment on what's going on in terms of testimony with Ambassador Sondland.  And I just noticed one thing, and I would say that means it's all over.  “What do want from Ukraine?” he asks me, screaming.  “What do you want from Ukraine?  I keep hearing all these different ideas and theories.”  This is Ambassador Sondland speaking to me.  Just happened.  To which I turned off the television.

“What do you want from Ukraine?  I keep hearing all these different ideas and theories…What do you want?”  “What do you want?”  “It was a very short and abrupt conversation” that he had with me.  They said, “He was not in a good mood.”  I'm always in a good mood.  I don't know what that is.  He just said — now he's talking about what my response.

So, he's going: ‘What do you want?  What do you want?  I hear all these theories.  What do you want?'  Right?

And now, here's my response that he gave — just gave. Ready?  You have the cameras rolling?  “I want nothing.”  “That's what I want from Ukraine.”  That's what I said.  “I want nothing.”  I said it twice.  So, he goes — he asks me the question: “What do you want?  I keep hearing all of these things.  What do you want?”  He finally gets me — I don't know him very well.  I have not spoken to him much.  This is not a man I know well.  Seems like a nice guy, though.  But I don't know him well.  He was with other candidates.  He actually supported other candidates — not me.  Came in late.

But here's my response.  Now, if you weren't fake news, you'd cover it properly.  I'd say to the Ambassador in response:  “I want nothing.  I want nothing.  I want no quid pro quo.  Tell Zelensky” — President Zelensky — “to do the right thing.”  So here's my answer: “I want nothing.  I want nothing.  I want no quid pro quo.  Tell Zelensky to do the right thing.”  Then he says, “This is the final word…from the President of the United States.”  “I want nothing.”

Thank you, folks.  Have a good time.  I'm going to Texas.

